{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f23\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Webdings;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\fs28\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\sa120\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs18\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvl11
\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext15 List Bullet;}{\s16\li284\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 List Continue;}{\s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext17 List Number;}{\*\cs18 \additive\super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s19\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext19 List Bullet 2;}{\s20\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 Hypertext Anchor;}{\*\cs21 \additive\b\f11\fs20 \sbasedon10 Key Name;}{\s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext22 
Synonyms;}{\s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon17\snext23 List Manual;}{\s24\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext24 List Number 2;}{
\s25\li566\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext25 List Continue 2;}{\s26\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext26 Definition Term;}{\s27\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon26\snext27 Definition Definition;}{
\s28\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext28 Tip;}{\s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon28\snext29 Note;}{\s30\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ~}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon29\snext30 Important;}{\s31\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon24\snext31 
List Manual 2;}{\s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext32 Comment;}{\*\cs33 \additive\b\f5\fs20 \sbasedon10 App Text;}{\*\cs34 \additive\scaps\f25\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon10 Graphic Link;}{\s35\sa120\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext35 footer;}{\*\cs36 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s37\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext37 annotation text;}{\s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 
\sbasedon0\snext38 Category UID;}{\s39\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'a2}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext39 Context;}{\s40\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb i}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext40 Index;}{\*\cs41 \additive\i\f5\fs20\ulnone\cf0\nosupersub \sbasedon10 Context Comment;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Symbian;}}{\info
{\title "PROTEA HELP FILE - <app name>"," }{\author Symbian}{\operator Symbian}{\creatim\yr1997\mo2\dy11\hr11\min7}{\revtim\yr2000\mo4\dy25\hr16\min19}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords1832}{\nofchars10444}{\*\company Psion SW}{\vern57395}}
\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl567\margr7371\margt567\margb567 \facingp\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\revisions\linkstyles\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0{\*\template C:\\apps\\MSOffice\\Templates\\Other Documents\\CSHELP.DOT}\sectd 
\psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 Author: Clive Whitear
\par Date: December 21{\super st} 1998
\par Version: ER5 release
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 Comms{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913809 
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 {\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913809 0x}{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913811 10000087}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Comms: Quick start
\par \pard\plain \s20\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 {\deleted\revauth1\revdttm1178913809 comms.quick-start
\par }\pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 terminal emulation online offline
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Comms provides terminal emulation and file transfer to and from other computers.
\par To exchange files with another computer, the other computer must have communications software that supports terminal emulation, that can transmit and receive ASCII files, or that is capable of XMODEM or YMODEM file transfer.
\par \ldblquote Scripts\rdblquote  can also be created to automate dialling, logging on and file transfer.
\par Further information about Comms can be obtained from the Comms documentation, available from xxxxxxx.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Using Comms
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 link cable off-line on-line on line off line online offline
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 If you have EPOC CONNECT use the link cable supplied to connect the EPOC machine to the serial port o
f the other computer. Set up the EPOC machine's port to have the same settings as the port on the computer you are connected to using {\cs33\b Set up} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar}.
\par The EPOC machine can also be connected to a remote computer via a modem, e.g. to access electronic mail or a bulletin board. In this case you need a modem adaptor. See your supplier for details.
\par When Comms is started the terminal emulation screen is displayed. The status bar at the bottom of the screen shows if you are online or offline. Each character 
typed in will be transmitted via the serial port. When a character is received it is displayed on the screen.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If the desktop link is on then Comms will be offline when opened. To go on-line, go to the System screen and switch the link off, using {\cs33\b Link to desktop} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu. Then go back to Comms and select {\cs33\b Port active} on the {
\cs33\b Transfer} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Scripts & names (Comms)
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Use Comms to create "Scripts" to automate dialling, logging on and file transfer, by using the commands on the {\cs33\b Scripts} menu.
\par Set up script variables (or "names"), e.g. for log-on details, and password protect them using the commands on the {\cs33\b Names} menu.
\par To copy sample scripts to a selected folder, select {\cs33\b Create standard files} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu. The sample scripts can then be used directly, or edited to suit your needs.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Setting up (Comms)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 handshaking flow control stop bits parity teletype VT100
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Communication settings} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Set the {\cs33\b Use comms port} line to 'Serial port 0\rquote 
 if you're using a docking cable and adaptor connection to a modem or 'Infrared\rquote  to use infrared communications.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Set the {\cs33\b Baud rate} line to the data communication speed. It should match the speed setting on the remote machine, and should not exceed the maximum speed of the modem being used.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Modern modems can sense and adjust to the transmission speed. With older modems, it may be necessary to specify the exact speed of the connection.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Set the {\cs33\b Data bits}, {\cs33\b Stop bits} and {\cs33\b Parity}
 lines to the same settings as the remote machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Use the tick boxes on the {\cs33\b Handshaking}
 page to select the flow control required.For a modem connection, XON/XOFF, DSR/DTR and RTS/CTS should normally be set, but this depends on the remote setup and the modem manufacturer\rquote s guidelines. For \lquote Hardware\rquote 
 flow control, tick the \lquote RTS/CTS\rquote  box.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Comms is initially set to emulate a VT100 terminal. To select a teletype terminal, select Terminal emulation on the Tools menu and set the {\cs33\b Terminal to emulate}
 line to 'TTY'. Set the screen width and height as the number of characters.
\par Comms is initially set to add a \ldblquote line feed\rdblquote  character to incoming and outgoing \ldblquote carriage returns\rdblquote . To change this select {\cs33\b Translate codes} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu, then use the {\cs33\b 
Add LF to incoming CR} and {\cs33\b Add LF to outgoing CR} lines.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Connecting to another machine (Comms)
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To communicate between the EPOC machine and, say, a PC:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Connect the serial linkcable to the serial port and to a COM port on the PC.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Make sure neither machine is running software that uses the communications ports (e.g. EPOC CONNECT on the PC). Make sure the EPOC machine has the {\cs33\b Link to desktop}
 switched off, and is not trying to carry out an infrared transfer.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Start Comms on the EPOC machine, and run a Terminal application on the PC. If using Windows 95, this may be HyperTerminal.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 4.\tab}
Set both pieces of software to use the appropriate ports, and to use identical settings for Baud rate, Data bits, Stop bits, Parity and Handshaking. The two machines are now ready to exchange characters and files.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Connecting via a modem (Comms)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 pause pausing
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To communicate using a modem:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Connect the EPOC machine to the modem using the Docking cable and a modem adaptor lead. Connect the modem to a telephone socket.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Use {\cs33\b Link to desktop} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu in the System screen and set the {\cs33\b Link} line to 'Off'.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s28\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 When you want to turn the link back on again later, you should close Comms first.

\par \pard\plain \s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab Set the communication settings appropriate to the modem\rquote s maximum speed, and identical to the remote machine\rquote 
s settings. Check that the Baud rate used does not exceed the maximum for the two machines.
\par 4.\tab To start communications with the modem, type "AT" and press Enter.
\par \pard\plain \s16\li284\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The modem will return \lquote OK\rquote , in the Terminal emulation screen. If it doesn\rquote 
t, make sure all cables are connected correctly and the communication settings are appropriate to the modem according to the manufacturer\rquote s instructions.
\par \pard\plain \s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 5.\tab Type the modem initialisation string appropriate to the modem. This may be \lquote ATZ\rquote  or \lquote AT&F\rquote ; check the modem manual for details.
\par 6.\tab Type \lquote ATDT\rquote  followed by the telephone number (including any dial-out prefix required) of the remote modem. When the other modem answers, \lquote CONNECT\rquote 
 will be displayed in the Terminal window, and you can begin to log in. This may require pressing the Enter key a few times to get a \ldblquote prompt\rdblquote  (a line of text sent by the remote machine, such as \lquote username:\rquote 
 which waits for a command or a response).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s28\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 If characters from a remote host are received too quickly to read, use {\cs33\b Pause}
 on the {\cs33\b Transfer} menu to temporarily stop incoming information. Use {\cs33\b Pause} again to resume the transfer.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If handshaking cannot be used, data may be lost if the EPOC machine is paused while the other machine is sending information. To avoid this, set a lower Baud rate.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Connecting via infrared (Comms)
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To communicate with another EPOC machine, an infrared-enabled PC or an infrared-enabled modem:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Communication settings} on the {\cs33\b Tools}
 menu and set the comms port to \lquote Infrared\rquote .
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}When the other machine is ready to communicate with the EPOC machine via infrared, continue as you would normally using the serial link cable.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s28\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Use Comms to transfer multiple files between two EPOC machines using YModem (batch) protocol (multiple files can't be transferred using normal infrared transfer).
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Sending & receiving files (Comms)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 capture to file transferring files
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Before files can be transferred, you must establish a connection to the remote machine.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar {\cs33\b To send a file:}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Send file} on the {\cs33\b Transfer} menu, or tap {\cs33\b Send file}
 on the Toolbar.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select the transfer protocol in the {\cs33\b Send file} dialog. Make sure it is one the remote machine supports and is prepared to receive.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Use the {\cs33\b Name}, {\cs33\b Folder} and {\cs33\b Disk} lines to locate the file to be sent.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 4.\tab}Press {\cs33\b OK} on the EPOC machine and prepare the other machine to receive a file. If possible, perform these actions simultaneously.
\par \pard\plain \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To send more than one file:}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Create a folder specifically for the files to be sent, place all the relevant files in it and select {\cs33\b Send file} on the {\cs33\b Transfer} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select the \lquote YModem (batch)\rquote  protocol, then select the folder containing the files to be sent in the {\cs33\b Folder} line.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Press the Tab key in the {\cs33\b Name} line, hold down Shift while using the down arrow key to select all the files in the folder, then press Enter. Press {\cs33\b OK}
 and prepare the remote machine to receive a file.
\par \pard\plain \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To receive files:}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Receive file} on the {\cs33\b Transfer} menu, or tap {\cs33\b 
Receive file} on the Toolbar.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select the transfer protocol in the {\cs33\b Receive file} dialog. Make sure it is the one the remote machine will use to send the file. Use Ymodem (batch) protocol for multiple files.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Choose a folder for the file to be saved in. If a file is being received using either the ASCII or XModem protocol, specify a filename (YModem transfers take the filename from the sending machine).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Remember to include filename extensions where appropriate.
\par \pard\plain \s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 4.\tab Press {\cs33\b OK} on the EPOC machine and instruct the remote machine to send the file. If possible, perform these actions simultaneously.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To stop transfer at any time, tap the {\cs33\b Cancel} button in the
 file transfer dialog.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b {\*\bkmkstart _Toc389538043}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc389564382}Receiving information with no protocol{\*\bkmkend _Toc389538043}{\*\bkmkend _Toc389564382}:
\par }If information is being received as plain ASCII characters, e.g. e-mail from a server, it can be "captured" to a file. To do this:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Capture to file} on the {\cs33\b Transfer} menu and type filename.

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
For the new information to be added to the end of an existing file, enter the name of the existing file and tick the {\cs33\b Append} box.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}For incoming control characters to be recorded in angled brackets, e.g. \lquote <13>\rquote  for a carriage return, tick the {\cs33\b Debug} box.
\par \pard\plain \s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab To end the capture, deselect the {\cs33\b Capture to file} menu option.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Captures are stored as plain text files. A plain text file can be viewed in Word, by using the {\cs33\b More|Import text file} command on the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par If problems are encountered when transferring information with no protocol, try setting both computers to use a lower Baud rate.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Creating & running scripts (Comms)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 run script create standard files edit script stop script
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Use a "Scripts" to automate dialling, logging on and file transfer, by using the commands on the {\cs33\b Scripts} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Create new script} from the {\cs33\b Scripts}
 menu. Enter a name and location for the script and press {\cs33\b OK}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Script names must have a \lquote .scr\rquote 
 extension. When a script is saved, Comms will add \lquote .scr\rquote  to the end of its name.
\par \pard\plain \s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab Comms will move to the script editor and you can type in the script.
\par 3.\tab Tap {\cs33\b Save} to return to the main Comms view.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s28\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
When creating a new script for, e.g., a connection to a BBS system, it can be useful to first record the logging in process using {\cs33\b Capture to file }on the {\cs33\b Transfer}
 menu. This records the prompts sent from the remote machine when connecting, and can be used as the starting point for your script.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To access the EPOC machine's example script, select {\cs33\b Create standard files} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu. Select a folder for Comms to place the example script in, and press {\cs33\b OK}.
\par To edit the example script or one of your own, select {\cs33\b Open} on the {\cs33\b Scripts} menu, and choose the script to be worked on. Press {\cs33\b OK}.
\par To check a script, select {\cs33\b Syntax check} on the {\cs33\b Scripts} menu and specify the script to be checked.
\par {\cs33\b To run a script:
\par }Select {\cs33\b Start Script} from the {\cs33\b Scripts} menu, and choose the appropriate script in the {\cs33\b Start} {\cs33\b script} dialog.
\par The name of the running script is displayed at the bottom of the Terminal emulation screen.
\par {\cs33\b To stop a script:}
\par Select {\cs33\b Stop script} from the {\cs33\b Scripts} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Script commands (Comms)
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Here is a summary of commands for the Script language.
\par & see Send
\par //
\par ALERT <string exp>[,<string exp>]
\par AND
\par AS see Open
\par ASC (<string exp>)
\par BEEP <value>,<value>
\par BREAK
\par CALL <filename>
\par CAPTURE <filename>,[APPEND[,DEBUG]]
\par CAPTURE OFF
\par CATCH [INCLUDE/EXCLUDE] ,<string>, <variable>, <timeout>, <maxlength> GOTO <label>
\par CHAIN <filename>
\par CLOSE see Open
\par CLS
\par COLLATE (<string exp>)
\par CONNECT <value> GOTO <label>
\par CONTINUE
\par COPY <filename>,<filename>
\par DELETE <filename>
\par DIR (<string exp>)
\par DO see While
\par DOWNLOAD <filename>,<string>
\par DRAIN
\par EOF see Open
\par EXISTS <filename>
\par EXIT
\par FALSE
\par FOLD <string exp>
\par FOR see Open
\par FORGET
\par GOTO <label>
\par HANGUP
\par IF <exp>THEN<command>[[ELSE]<command>[ELSEIF<exp>THEN<command>]] ENDIF
\par INFO <string exp>
\par INPUT see Open
\par LEFT (<string exp>,<value>)
\par RIGHT (<string exp>,<value>)
\par LEN <string exp>
\par LOADNAMES <filename>
\par SAVENAMES <filename>
\par LOWER <string exp>
\par MENU <string exp>
\par \tab <string exp> GOTO <label>
\par \tab <string exp> GOTO <label>
\par \tab \'85
\par ENDMENU
\par MID (<string exp>,<value>[,<value>])
\par MOVE <filename>,<string exp>
\par NOT
\par ON ERROR GOTO <label>
\par ON ERROR OFF
\par OPEN <filename> FOR [INPUT/OUTPUT/APPEND] AS <handle>
\par \tab READ <length>,<variable>,<handle>
\par \tab WRITE <handle>,<string>
\par \tab EOF <handle>
\par CLOSE <handle>
\par OR
\par OUTPUT see Open
\par QUERY <string exp>
\par \tab <string exp>,<variable>
\par \tab <string exp>,<variable>
\par ENDQUERY
\par READ see Open
\par RENAME <filename>,<filename>
\par REPEAT
\par \tab <command>
\par UNTIL <expression>
\par RESET
\par RIGHT see Left
\par SAVENAMES see Loadnames
\par SEND <string exp> [;] [& <string exp>]
\par SENDBREAK
\par SENDWAIT <value> <string exp>,<string exp> GOTO <label>
\par SET <variable>=<value>
\par SETUP
\par \tab BAUD [rate]
\par \tab PORT [COMM::0][IRCOMM::0]
\par \tab DATA [5][6][7][8]
\par \tab FAIL [DSR][DCD][PARITY]
\par \tab HANDSHAKE [DCD][RTSCTS][DSR][XONXOFF][NONE]
\par \tab PARITY [NONE][ODD][EVEN]
\par \tab STOP [1][2]
\par \tab TIMEOUT [timeout]
\par ENDSETUP
\par STATUS <string exp>
\par TRUE
\par UNTIL see Repeat
\par UPLOAD <filename>,<string>
\par UPPER <string exp>
\par VERSION
\par WAIT <value>
\par \tab <string exp> GOTO <label>
\par \tab <string exp> GOTO <label>
\par \tab \'85
\par ENDWAIT
\par WHILE <exp> DO
\par \tab \'85
\par ENDWHILE
\par WRITE see Open
\par 
\par }