{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f23\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Webdings;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\fs28\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\sa120\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs18\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11
\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon29\snext15 Note;}{\s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 List Bullet;}{
\s17\li284\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext17 List Continue;}{\s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext18 List Number;}{\*\cs19 \additive\super 
\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s20\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext20 List Bullet 2;}{\s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 
Hypertext Anchor;}{\*\cs22 \additive\b\f11\fs20 \sbasedon10 Key Name;}{\s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext23 Synonyms;}{\s24\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon18\snext24 List Manual;}{
\s25\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext25 List Number 2;}{\s26\li566\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext26 List Continue 2;}{\s27\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext27 Definition Term;}{\s28\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon27\snext28 Definition Definition;}{\s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext29 Tip;}{\s30\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ~}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon15\snext30 Important;}{\s31\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon25\snext31 List Manual 2;}{\s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext32 Comment;}{\*\cs33 \additive\b\f5\fs20 \sbasedon10 App Text;}{\*\cs34 \additive\scaps\f25\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon10 Graphic Link;}{
\s35\sa120\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext35 footer;}{\*\cs36 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s37\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext37 annotation text;}{
\s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext38 Category UID;}{\s39\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'a2}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext39 Context;}{\s40\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb i}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext40 Index;}{\*\cs41 \additive\i\f5\fs20\ulnone\cf0\nosupersub 
\sbasedon10 Context Comment;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Symbian;}}{\info{\title "PROTEA HELP FILE - HARDWARE"," }{\author Symbian}{\operator Symbian}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy11\hr16\min40}{\revtim\yr2000\mo4\dy25\hr16\min31}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2289}{\nofchars13050}
{\*\company Psion SW}{\vern57395}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl567\margr7371\margt567\margb567 \facingp\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\revisions\linkstyles\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0{\*\template C:\\apps\\MSOffice\\Templates\\Other Documents\\CSHELP.DOT}\sectd 
\psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 Author: Clive Whitear
\par Date: 4{\super th} March 1999
\par Version: ER5 release
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 Hardware{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913823 
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 {\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913823 0x10007000}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 The EPOC machine pen
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 ###This topic needs to be revised if the machine does not have a pen.
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 stylus pointer mouse click tap screen calibrate
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The EPOC machine has a pen that you should use to operate the touch-sensitive screen. It's specially designed not to harm the screen.
\par ### Say where the pen is stored, how it\rquote s ejected and how you replace it in the holder.
\par You can usually select something on the screen, simply by tapping it.
\par To select text with the pen, put the pen on the first character you want to select and move the pen across the text to the last character you want to select; this is known as "dragging".
\par You can also change some aspects of the display by tapping them, e.g. tap the clock in a program's Toolbar to change it from an "analog" to a "digital" clock.
\par If you have difficulty selecting things with the pen, you may need to re-calibrate the screen. To do this, tap the {\cs33\b Control panel} button on the {\cs33\b Toolbar} in the System screen and select the {\cs33\b Screen} icon. Then press {\cs33\b 
Calibrate} and follow the instructions on the screen.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Switching on & off
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Turn off Power voice note dictaphone back light screenlight screen light on/off backlight Automatic switch off switch on/off esc
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To switch the EPOC machine off, press the Off key, or select {\cs33\b Switch off} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu in the System screen.
\par The EPOC machine switches off automatically after xx minutes of not being used; this is to save battery power. To change this setting tap {\cs33\b Control panel} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar} in the System screen, and select the {\cs33\b Switch on/off} icon.

\par If you set {\cs33\b Automatic switch off} to 'No' the EPOC machine will not switch off automatically. Do not select 'No' if you only use batteries - the batteries will run down if you inadvertently leave the EPOC machine turned on.
\par 'If no external power' means the EPOC machine will switch off automatically only if it is being powered by batteries. If you are using a mains adapter, it will stay on.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select the {\cs33\b Screen}
 icon to change the 'Backlight automatic switch off' settings.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Disks & memory
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Freeing memory Desktop Show Bytes Kilobytes memory meter memory usage System memory Root c drive c disk d drive d disk drop down Show disk gauge C drive D drive current disk formatting memory gauge

\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The folders and files displayed on the System screen are those on the current disk ('C' for the EPOC machine's internal drive, or 'D' for an external
 disk). To view the files and folders on an external disk that is plugged into the machine, tap on the disk letter on the Title bar and select the alternative from the list, or select {\cs33\b Current disk|C }(internal) or {\cs33\b Current disk|D }
(external) on the {\cs33\b Disk} menu.
\par To display the amount of internal memory that is free, select {\cs33\b Show disk gauge} on the {\cs33\b View} menu on the System screen. To see how much memory is used and how much is free in kilobytes (K), select {\cs33\b Memory} on the {\cs33\b 
Information} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 One K is just over a thousand characters of text. One megabyte (M) is a thousand K.

\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To display information about an external disk, select {\cs33\b Disk} on the {\cs33\b Information} menu.
\par If you are short of memory on the internal drive, try removing unwanted files (or moving them to an external disk), closing a program you are not using or clearing the clipboard.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
To format an external disk (and lose any information that was previously on the disk), select {\cs33\b Format disk} from the {\cs33\b Disk} menu and select Disk D. {\cs33\b Do not format the C disk.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Screen Backlight
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 screenlight back light screen light on/off
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 ###This topic is relevant for machines with a backlight only.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The EPOC machine has a light in the screen (or "backlight") that you can switch on to make text on the screen more easily visible in poorly lit locations.
\par To turn the backlight on and off: press the required key combination.
\par The backlight switches off automatically after xx minutes of not being used; this is to save battery power.
\par To change the Backlight setting: tap {\cs33\b Control panel} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar} in the System screen, and select the {\cs33\b Screen} icon.
\par When using batteries as opposed to mains power, use the backlight sparingly, and keep its automatic switch off time set to a low value, to save the batteries.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Batteries & power
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 power dictaphone back light screenlight screen light RS232 RS 232 V24 V.24 link cable battery
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 EPOC machine takes the following types of batteries:
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 Include a description of the batteries below.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 xx for the main batteries.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}xx for the backup battery.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 A message will tell you when either of the batteries are getting low and need replacing.
\par To prolong battery life:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Set the automatic switch off time to a lower value.
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 ##Check the following note points for relevance to your machine. Also check the names.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Use the Backlight sparingly and set its automatic switch off time to a lower value.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}If the EPOC machine has a cable which allows you to connect it to a PC with EPOC CONNECT installed set the {\cs33\b Link to desktop}
 to Off when you are not using the link. The EPOC machine uses more battery power when the {\cs33\b Link to desktop} is On, even if it is not being used.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}If the EPOC machine has external buttons for recording voice notes do not leave any of them pressed.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 For information about the batteries, select {\cs33\b Battery} on the {\cs33\b Information} menu on the System screen.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Alarms & other sounds
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 volume keyclick Try Reminder Warning Noise Record Erase Remove dialogue all sounds on
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To switch all the sounds that can be produced by EPOC programs off (with the exception of alarm sounds): tap {\cs33\b Control panel} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar} in the System screen and select the {\cs33\b Sound
} icon. Then remove the tick from the {\cs33\b Sounds on} box.
\par To turn alarm sounds off: go to the Time program, tap {\cs33\b Sound} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar}, and set it to 'Off'.
\par In the EPOC Time and Agenda programs, you can select any of the EPOC machine's built in alarms, or use the EPOC Record program to create your own sounds (these then become automatically available to EPOC Time and Agenda).
\par To hear an alarm sound: select{\cs33\b  New alarm }from the {\cs33\b Edit} cascade in the EPOC Time program, select the sound, and press the {\cs33\b Test sound} button.
\par You can use the EPOC Record program to delete any alarms that you have created yourself, but you cannot delete the sounds supplied with the EPOC machine.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Keyboard settings
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 setting key keys repeat delay repeat rate
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 ##Reword this topic as appropriate.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 If the EPOC machine has a keyboard the delay time can be changed.
\par Keyboard delay times work as follows:
\par If you hold down a character key while typing, the character will be repeated after a short delay (the 'Initial delay time'). If you keep the key pressed, the character will be repeated again after another delay, the 'Subsequent delay time'.
\par To change the keyboard delay settings, tap {\cs33\b Control panel} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar} in the System screen and select the {\cs33\b Keyboard} icon.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 External disks
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 CF Compact flash Disk Floppy CompactFlash
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 ##Reword or remove topic as appropriate.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 External disks are removable devices which can be used to provide a
dditional space for storing files and folders created on the EPOC machine. External disks can be inserted in the D disk drive. You can save files and folders direct to External disks, or use them to back up files and folders from the EPOC machine's 'C' di
sk.
\par External disks can also be used to hold additional programs that can be selected from the Extras bar.
\par Some types of disk are supplied ready formatted.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Connecting to PCs
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Comms Communication Desktop on/off RS232, RS 232, V24, V.24 remote link to desktop cable
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 ##Reword or remove topic as appropriate.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 If you have EPOC CONNECT you can integrate your EPOC machine with PCs running Windows 95 or NT 4.0. EPOC CONNECT creates a 'EPOC machine' icon on the PC desktop and within Windows Explorer, with options to:

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b View}
 your EPOC machine files, and drag and drop files between the two machines. The files will be automatically converted to the appropriate file format at the same time.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Convert files} from another machine. Convert the files from the other machine to a PC format and then convert them again to EPOC machine format before copying them to the EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Synchronise} Agenda files on the EPOC machine with any of the PC agenda applications that EPOC CONNECT supports.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Print} files on the EPOC machine to a printer connected to the PC.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Back up} the EPOC machine\rquote s files to a PC, and restore them to the EPOC machine should you need to.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Install} new programs on your EPOC machine.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You can also {\cs33\b open} files on your EPOC machine in an associated PC program, edit them, and save them back to the EPOC machine.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar To connect the EPOC machine to a PC:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Install EPOC CONNECT on the PC from the disk or CD. See the EPOC CONNECT documentation for information on how to do this.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Use {\cs33\b Link to desktop} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu in the EPOC machine System screen to make sure the link is set to \lquote Cable\rquote .
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Use the commands from the \lquote EPOC machine\rquote  desktop icon or the icon in Windows Explorer to perform the EPOC CONNECT functions.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 When you are not using an EPOC link cable or Infrared link, set the {\cs33\b Link to desktop} to 'Off', to save battery power.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If you leave the link set to 'Cable' or 'Infrared', then you will not be able to print, or use the link for the Comms program.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Infrared data transfer
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Beam Document Copy IR Transfer RS232 RS 232 V24 V.24
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 ##Replace or remove as appropriate
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
If the EPOC machine has Infrared capabilities, you can copy highlighted information, or whole files (regardless of which EPOC programs were used to create them), to another EPOC machine without using a cable. You cannot transfer information between a EPOC
 machine and xx.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Transferred files have the same information and attributes as the original files, including passwords.
\par \pard\plain \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To transfer information using Infrared:}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Link to desktop} on the {\cs33\b Tools}
 menu in the System screen and set the {\cs33\b Link} line to Off on both EPOC machines.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}On the sending EPOC machine, select the piece of information to be copied - this might be a section of text, or an entry in Agenda or Data. To copy a whole file, highlight it on the System screen.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}
On the receiving EPOC machine, open the file into which the information is to be copied and place the cursor where it is to be inserted. If copying a file, move to the System screen and open the folder that the file is to be copied into. Then select the {
\cs33\b Receive} command from the {\cs33\b Infrared }cascade on the Side bar or {\cs33\b Tools} menu. The EPOC machine should display a 'Ready to receive' message.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 4.\tab}
The Infrared "window" on each EPOC machine is located xx. Ensure that the two EPOC machines are facing each other, on a similar horizontal plane (ideally, both should be resting on the same flat surface). The EPOC machines should be no more than xx metres
 apart.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 5.\tab}Select the {\cs33\b Send} command from the {\cs33\b Infrared }cascade on the sending EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 6.\tab}The information is now transferred. To stop the transfer while it is in progress, press the Esc key on either of the EPOC machines.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If you are transferring a file, and the folder to which the file is being copied already contains a file of the same name, then the screen of the receiving EPOC machine will display a \ldblquote file already exists\rdblquote 
 message, and will display a dialog suggesting a new name. Either accept the suggested name or type in an alternative. If you want to keep the same filename, you can save the file to another folder and/or disk drive.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}If you leave the link set to 'Cable' or 'Infrared', then you will not be able to print, or use the link for the Comms program.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Infrared transfer (Agenda entries)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Hardware Beam Diary Copy IR Transfer
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Infrared transfer can be used to copy an entire Agenda entry, including date, time and alarm settings to an Agenda file on another EPOC machine, or to copy Agenda entry text and embedded objects to any other text-based EPOC program. (You can also copy an 
Agenda file to the System screen of another EPOC machine.)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 On th
e sending EPOC machine, move the cursor to the Agenda entry or highlight the text and objects.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}On the receiving EPOC machine, open the Agenda file to which the entry is to be copied or move the cursor to the place where the text and objects are to be copied.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Select Infrared receive on the receiving EPOC machine and Infrared send on the sending EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If you transfer an entry from a To-do list to an EPOC machine that does not have a To-do list of the same name, the entry is placed in the first To-do list.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Infrared transfer (Data entries)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Hardware Beam Copy IR Transfer
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Infrared transfer can be used to copy an entire Data entry to a Data file on another EPOC machine. A Data file can also be copied to the System screen of another EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
On the sending EPOC machine, move the cursor to the Data entry or highlight the text and objects.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}On the receiving EPOC machine, open the Data file to which the information is to be copied or move the cursor to the place where the text and objects are to be copied.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Select Infrared receive on the receiving EPOC machine and Infrared send on the sending EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
For an entry to be successfully transferred, the receiving database must have the same labels and label settings as the sending database.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Infrared transfer (Sketches)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Hardware Beam Drawing Copy IR Transfer
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Infrared transfer can be used to copy part of a sketch to a Sketch file, or to a Sketch window in another program (e.g. Word), on another EPOC machine. A Sketch file can also be copied
 to the System screen of another EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 On the sending EPOC machine, select the area of the sketch to be copied.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}On the receiving EPOC machine, open the Sketch file/window to which the information is to be copied.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Select Infrared receive on the receiving EPOC machine and Infrared send on the sending EPOC machine.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Infrared transfer (Word documents)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Hardware Beam WP Copy IR Transfer
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Infrared transfer can be used to copy highlighted Word text and embedded objects to any text-based program on another EPOC machine. You can also copy a Word file to the System screen of another EPOC machine.

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 On the sending EPOC machine, highlight the text and objects to be copied.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}On the receiving EPOC machine, move the cursor to the place where the text and objects are to be copied.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Select Infrared receive on the receiving EPOC machine and Infrared send on the sending EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If text is copied from one Word file to another, style and formatting details are preserved. Where there is a clash of styles, the style settings in the receiving file will take precedence over similarly named styles in the incoming paragraph(s).
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Infrared transfer (Program text)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Hardware OPL Beam Program Copy IR Transfer
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Infrared can be used to copy highlighted OPL text to any text-based program on another EPOC machine. An OPL file can also be copied to the System screen of another EPOC machine.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar To transfer OPL information using Infrared:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 On the sending EPOC machine, highlight the text.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}On the receiving EPOC machine, move the cursor to the place where the text is to be copied.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Select Infrared receive on the receiving EPOC machine and Infrared send on the sending EPOC machine.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Infrared transfer (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Hardware Beam Worksheet Copy IR Transfer
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Infrared transfer can be used to copy the contents of cells highlighted in Sheet to a Sheet file on another EPOC machine, or to copy the text in the cells to any other text-based program. A Sheet file can also be copied to the System screen of anoth
er EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 On the sending EPOC machine, highlight the cells.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}On the receiving EPOC machine, move the cursor to the place where the information is to be copied.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Select Infrared receive on the receiving EPOC machine and Infrared send on the sending EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If you copy cells to another Sheet file, then the formulae for calculations are also copied (relative and absolute cell references are preserved and behave normally). If you copy cells to a file in a program other than Sheet, the re
sults of any formulae, not the formulae themselves, are copied.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par }