{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f23\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Webdings;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\fs28\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\sa120\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs18\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11
\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon29\snext15 Note;}{\s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 List Bullet;}{
\s17\li284\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext17 List Continue;}{\s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext18 List Number;}{\*\cs19 \additive\super 
\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s20\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext20 List Bullet 2;}{\s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 
Hypertext Anchor;}{\*\cs22 \additive\b\f11\fs20 \sbasedon10 Key Name;}{\s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext23 Synonyms;}{\s24\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon18\snext24 List Manual;}{
\s25\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext25 List Number 2;}{\s26\li566\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext26 List Continue 2;}{\s27\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext27 Definition Term;}{\s28\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon27\snext28 Definition Definition;}{\s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext29 Tip;}{\s30\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ~}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon15\snext30 Important;}{\s31\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon25\snext31 List Manual 2;}{\s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext32 Comment;}{\*\cs33 \additive\b\f5\fs20 \sbasedon10 App Text;}{\*\cs34 \additive\scaps\f25\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon10 Graphic Link;}{
\s35\sa120\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext35 footer;}{\*\cs36 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s37\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext37 annotation text;}{
\s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext38 Category UID;}{\s39\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'a2}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext39 Context;}{\s40\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb i}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext40 Index;}{\*\cs41 \additive\i\f5\fs20\ulnone\cf0\nosupersub 
\sbasedon10 Context Comment;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Symbian;}}{\info{\title @@TTL:SERIES 5 HELP FILE - TEMPLATE}{\author Symbian}{\operator Symbian}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy11\hr10\min40}{\revtim\yr2000\mo4\dy25\hr16\min36}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1104}
{\nofchars6294}{\*\company Psion SW}{\vern57395}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl567\margr7371\margt567\margb567 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\revisions\linkstyles\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0{\*\template C:\\apps\\MSOffice\\Templates\\Other Documents\\CSHELP.DOT}
\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 Author: Clive Whitear
\par Date: December 21{\super st} 1998
\par Version: ER5 release
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 Record{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913827 
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 {\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913828 0x1000007e}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Record: Quick start
\par \pard\plain \s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 {\deleted\revauth1\revdttm1178913828 record.quick-start
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 music sounds dictaphone fader level digital microphone loudspeaker outside buttons
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Record is for recording and playing back sounds. You can also:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Insert recordings as objects in EPOC Word, Data or Agenda files, and send them to another EPOC machine user.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Use them as alarm sounds, in addition to the sounds built into the EPOC machine.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Record "voice notes" using the buttons on the exterior of the EPOC machine.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Use the Record buttons to record, play, and move through sound files. Use the volume control to set a playback level, and use the numeric indicators to check details of the current sound file length, available time remaining (during recording), and the nu
mber of repeats which have been set (if applicable).
\par The EPOC machine saves recordings as files on disks. There is no need for tapes.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The {\cs33\b microphone}
 is #add location of the microphone#. You can experiment with placement to obtain the clearest recording, with the least distortion and background noise.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}The {\cs33\b loudspeaker} is #add location of the loudspeaker#
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}The {\cs33\b buttons} are used to record, play and move around sound files; use the external "voice notes" buttons to record notes when you are on the move.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}The {\cs33\b Progress bar}, above the buttons on the screen, displays a graphic representation of the current file.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If, during the recording (or playing) of a sound file, an alarm was due to sound, it will be delayed until the recording has finished.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Progress bar (Record)
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
When Record is first started the progress bar is light grey. During recording it turns white and begins to fill up with grey from the left, like a fuel gauge. When recording stops, the entire progress bar turns dark grey, representing the full length of t
he recorded sound.
\par During playback the progress bar turns to light grey again and a simila
r dark grey area sweeps across it. The boundary between dark and light greys is the position marker which shows the current point within the recording, with the far right position being the end.
\par The start points of multiple recordings made in the current session are marked with vertical lines (the lines will be lost when Record is closed).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
The 'Position' counter also shows the current point, but measured in minutes and seconds.
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 gauge graph dictaphone cursor indicator counter
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Recording a sound (Record)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 dictaphone sound file
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To record a new sound:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Press the {\cs33\b Extras}
 button on the icon bar and press the Record program icon, or tap the {\cs33\b New file} button in the System screen Toolbar and select Record.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Tap the {\cs33\b REC} button, or press the Enter key, to begin recording. The 'Recorded' indicator shows how long your recording is in seconds.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Tap the {\cs33\b STOP} button, or press the Esc key, to finish recording. The recording is stored as a file named 'Record' on the Internal disk, unless you use {\cs33\b Save as} on the {\cs33\b File} menu 
to specify a different name or location.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To save a recording and work on a copy of it, use {\cs33\b Save as} on the {\cs33\b File} menu and specify a different name for the new version.
\par The maximum length of a recording depends on the amount of free space left on the disk drive (one minute of sound using standard compression takes up 500K of disk space). The 'Time remaining' indicator shows how much more recording could be done if you wa
nted to use up all the free space, but in general its advisable to leave plenty of space for running other programs.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Record will not allow you to completely fill up the Internal disk, and always leaves a minimum of 100K free.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Playing a sound (Record)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 replay playback dictaphone loud quiet soft fader volume rewind fast forward
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To listen to the current sound:}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tap the {\cs33\b PLAY} button, or press the Spacebar, to start playback.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Tap the {\cs33\b STOP} button, or press the Esc key, to stop playback before the end.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The {\cs33\b PLAY}
 button can also be used to pause, and then restart playback.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To change the volume, use the pen to drag the volume control, or use the up and down arrow keys.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar {\cs33\b To listen to part of the current sound:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Use the {\cs33\b FFWD} and {\cs33\b REW}
 buttons to move the position marker, or drag it with the pen, to the point in the file where you want to begin playback.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Tap the {\cs33\b PLAY} button, or press the Spacebar, to start playback. Record will play the sound from the position marker and stop at the end unless you press the {\cs33\b STOP} button.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Open file} on the {\cs33\b File}
 menu to open, then listen to another sound.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Recording alarm sounds (Record)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 dictaphone repeats Time Agenda alarms
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Use Record to make alarm sounds for use in the EPOC Time and Agenda programs. You can also save a copy of an existing Record file as an alarm sound.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select the Record icon.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Open a sound file or record a new one.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Edit the recording and set repeats, if desired.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 4.\tab}Tap the {\cs33\b Alarm sound} button on the Toolbar or select the command on the {\cs33\b File} menu and enter a name.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The alarm sound will appear alongside the in-built sounds in the EPOC Time and Agenda programs.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To delete a custom alarm sound, select {\cs33\b Delete alarm sound} on the {
\cs33\b File} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The in-built alarm sounds cannot be deleted.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Rewinding & fast forwarding (Record)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 move speed dictaphone rewind fast forward REW FFWD go to time
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You can jump to the beginning or end of a sound, or move to any other point within it.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Use the pen to tap at any point in the progress bar to move the position marker or to drag the position marker to the beginning or end of a sound file.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Tap the {\cs33\b REW} button, or hold down Fn and use the left arrow key to jump backwards through a sound in two-second intervals.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Tap the {\cs33\b FFWD} button, or hold down Fn and use the right arrow key to jump forwards through a sound in two-second intervals.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Hold down the left arrow key to move quickly backwards through a sound.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Hold down the right arrow key to move quickly forwards through a sound.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Select {\cs33\b Go to time} on the {\cs33\b Play} menu and enter a position in minutes and seconds.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Press {\cs33\b PLAY} to start playback from the position marker.
\par Select {\cs33\b Record & replace} on the {\cs33\b Record} menu to start recording from the position marker.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Changing a sound (Record)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 append lengthen edit dictaphone cut add
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To add further recorded sound on to the end of an existing recording, select {\cs33\b Record & append} on the {\cs33\b Record} menu.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar All or part of an existing sound can be recorded over. To do this:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Use the pen to drag the position marker to any point in the file, or select {\cs33\b 
Go to time} on the {\cs33\b Play} menu and enter a position in minutes and seconds.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select {\cs33\b Record and replace} on the {\cs33\b Record} menu.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The recording starts from the current cursor position. This will delete and overwrite any previously recorded sound from this point in the file.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 You can shorten a sound file by selecting {\cs33\b Crop} from the {\cs33\b 
Record} menu. All sound after the selected point is deleted.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To erase all sound from the current file, select {\cs33\b Erase all} on the {\cs33\b Record} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Repeating a sound (Record)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 replay dictaphone pause
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To play a sound file several times in succession, set it to repeat by selecting the {\cs33\b Repeat sound} command on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu and entering a number between 1 and 60000.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 A pause between repeats of up to 2000 seconds can be set.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Compressing sound files (Record)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 compact file size dictaphone
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The EPOC machine normally compresses recorded sound so that 2 minutes of sound takes up 1Mbyte of memory. You can reduce the amount of space used for a new recording even further by selecting {\cs33\b 
Compress sound} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu and then {\cs33\b ADPCM Compression (4 minutes per Mbyte)} before starting the recording.
\par Use standard compression to use a Record file in a program that cannot use ADPCM compressed files.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Skipping and searching through sound files may be slightly quicker with uncompressed files.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par }