{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f23\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Webdings;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\fs28\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\sa120\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs18\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11
\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon29\snext15 Note;}{\s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 List Bullet;}{
\s17\li284\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext17 List Continue;}{\s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext18 List Number;}{\*\cs19 \additive\super 
\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s20\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext20 List Bullet 2;}{\s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 
Hypertext Anchor;}{\*\cs22 \additive\b\f11\fs20 \sbasedon10 Key Name;}{\s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext23 Synonyms;}{\s24\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon18\snext24 List Manual;}{
\s25\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext25 List Number 2;}{\s26\li566\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext26 List Continue 2;}{\s27\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext27 Definition Term;}{\s28\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon27\snext28 Definition Definition;}{\s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext29 Tip;}{\s30\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ~}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon15\snext30 Important;}{\s31\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon25\snext31 List Manual 2;}{\s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext32 Comment;}{\*\cs33 \additive\b\f5\fs20 \sbasedon10 App Text;}{\*\cs34 \additive\scaps\f25\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon10 Graphic Link;}{
\s35\sa120\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext35 footer;}{\*\cs36 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s37\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext37 annotation text;}{
\s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext38 Category UID;}{\s39\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'a2}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext39 Context;}{\s40\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb i}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext40 Index;}{\*\cs41 \additive\i\f5\fs20\ulnone\cf0\nosupersub 
\sbasedon10 Context Comment;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Symbian;}}{\info{\title \'93PROTEA HELP FILE - Sheet\'94,\'94 }{\author Symbian}{\operator Symbian}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy30\hr12\min32}{\revtim\yr2000\mo4\dy25\hr16\min38}{\version3}{\edmins2}{\nofpages24}{\nofwords6492}
{\nofchars37008}{\*\company Psion SW}{\vern57395}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl567\margr7371\margt567\margb567 \facingp\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\revisions\linkstyles\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0{\*\template 
C:\\apps\\MSOffice\\Templates\\Other Documents\\CSHELP.DOT}\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar 
\i\f5\fs20\lang2057 Author: Clive Whitear
\par Date: February 18{\super th} 1999
\par Version: ER5 release
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 Sheet{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913829 
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 {\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913829 0x10000088}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Sheet: Quick start
\par \pard\plain \s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 {\deleted\revauth1\revdttm1178913830 sheet.quick-start
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 basics graphs charts spreadsheets worksheets transfer
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Sheet is the EPOC machine's spreadsheet. The files created in it are compatible with PC spreadsheet applications. If a PC has EPOC CONNECT installed Sheet files can be copied to the PC and you can work on them there.
\par {\cs33\b Use Sheet to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Display information in a table.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Perform calculations based on sets of numbers, or that use formulae and functions.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Create graphs from sets of numbers.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Sheet has two views.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Sheet: for spreadsheet work, and for creating the ranges of information used to draw graphs.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Graph: for creating and printing graphs.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To switch between the two views: tap the appropriate button on the {\cs33\b Toolbar}, or select {\cs33\b Sheet} from the {\cs33\b Switch view }cascade or {\cs33\b Graph} from the {\cs33\b Switch view }
cascade on the {\cs33\b View} menu.
\par {\cs33\b In Sheet you can:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Format cells easily using the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Freeze panes to keep some areas on screen while you scroll others.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Use "named" cells and ranges in calculations.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To enter information in a cell, tap on it and type the information.
\par To move around the worksheet:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Tap the cell you want to move to. Use the scroll bars or the arrow keys to move to other areas of the worksheet. Combine the arrow keys with the {\cs33\b Ctrl} key to move a page at a time.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Use {\cs33\b Go\~to} from the {\cs33\b Find }cascade on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu to jump to a specific cell.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Use the {\cs33\b Find commands} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu to move to cells if you know their content.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You can insert spreadsheets as "objects" within other EPOC programs, but you cannot insert an object in a spreadsheet.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Cell references (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Spreadsheet mixed references absolute relative go to
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The worksheet is a grid of cells divided into horizontal rows and vertical columns. A reference, e.g. B4, consists of the letter of the column that the cell is in, followed by the number of its row.
\par Use cell references when:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Creating formulae for calculations.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Moving to cells using {\cs33\b Go\~to} from the {\cs33\b Find }cascade on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 There are two types of cell reference that can be used in formulae:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Relative references, e.g. A3, which update automatically when the formula is moved or copied. E.g. =SUM(A5:A8) in A9 becomes =SUM(D6:D9) when copied to D10.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Absolute references, e.g. $A$3, with a $ sign before any part of a reference that you do not want to change when you copy or move the formula elsewhere. 
E.g. =SUM($A$3:$A$8) in A9 remains as it is when copied to D10.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Relative and absolute references can be combined. E.g. =SUM(A$5:A$8) in A9 becomes =SUM(D$5:D$8) when copied to D10.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Entering information (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 active cell # hashes clear formula square gate hatch pound octothorpe
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Highlight the cell and enter the information to be stored there. This information will be displayed in the input line above the worksheet. Move to another cell or press Enter to store the information.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 A single selected cell will have a thicker border than other cells.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The first character typed in tells Sheet what type of information the cell will contain.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
For numbers: make the first character a number or one of the following: + - . (
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}For text: type it in. If the text starts with a number, type a ' first, e.g. '16 Queen Street. To make your text begin with a ' type two of them.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Start formulae with an equals sign, as in '=A1+B2'.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
# marks appear in the cell if a number is too long for the column width, though the numerical information is still stored. To change the column width, use {\cs33\b Column width }on the {\cs33\b Format} menu.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To replace a selected cell's contents: type the new information and press Enter.
\par To change its contents: press Enter, then edit the contents on the input line.
\par To remove certain aspects of a selected cell's information: use {\cs33\b Clear} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu and choose whether you want to delete the formatting, contents or all the information associated with a cell.
\par To delete a selected cell's contents: press the Del key.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Selecting cells (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 selecting range painting nonadjacent highlighting non-contiguous
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Highlight cells in order to change their formatting, create a range for a graph or formula, cut or copy their information, or paste information into them.
\par To highlight a range of cells:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tap on the first cell and drag the highlight to cover the des
ired area, or highlight the first cell in the range and hold down the Shift key while you use the arrow keys to extend the highlight.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To highlight a whole column or row: tap the column or row heading.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To highlight the whole worksheet: tap the top left-hand box (to the left of the column headings and above the row headings).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To highlight unconnected areas: hold down the Ctrl key and tap in turn on each area you want to highlight.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Formatting cells (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 overrun typeface font emphasis wrapping bold italics underline wrap text to cell alignment
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To change the way information is displayed on the worksheet, select the cells, then:
\par {\cs33\b To change the format:}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Use the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}
 buttons to change the font and size of characters, or to make the text bold, italic or underlined, or
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Select {\cs33\b Font} on the {\cs33\b Format} menu and select the formatting options you require.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To change the alignment:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Use the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}
 button to choose from Left aligned, Centre aligned, Right aligned text and Standard alignment (numbers on the right and text on the left), or
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Select {\cs33\b Alignment} on the {\cs33\b Format} menu. Use this dialog to set the vertical alignment of information in a cell.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To make information stay within cell boundaries, tick {\cs33\b Wrap text to cell}.

\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Adding borders & shading to cells (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 borders shading background colours colors outlines grey gray white lines
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To add borders and shading to cells, select them, then:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tap the {\cs33\b Border} button on the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}, or select {
\cs33\b Border} on the {\cs33\b Format} menu, and choose the type of border required.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Tap the {\cs33\b Shading} button on the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}, or select {\cs33\b Shading} on the {\cs33\b Format} menu, and choose the type of shading required.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Column and Row size (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 column width row height wider taller narrower shorter
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To change the width of a column or the height of a row:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Drag the right-hand edge of the column heading, or the lower edge of the row label.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
You can change multiple columns or rows, by highlighting them first (tap in the middle of the column or row title and drag across the adjacent columns or rows)
. If a column is hidden, tap to the right of the line to drag it into view again (you'll see an arrow on one side of the line only); if a row is hidden, tap under the line. To change a column to the left of a hidden column, tap to the left of the line and
 drag it (you'll see two arrows); to change a row above a hidden row, tap above the line.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To set the column width as a number of characters, use {\cs33\b Column} {\cs33\b width} on the {\cs33\b Format} menu. To apply the new setting to a range of columns, specify the range in the {\cs33\b For co
lumns} line of the dialog.
\par To set the row height in points (there are 72 points in an inch), use {\cs33\b Row} {\cs33\b height} on the {\cs33\b Format} menu. To apply the new setting to a range of rows, specify the range in the dialog.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Inserting cells, rows & columns (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 insert cells insert columns insert rows
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To insert a single cell: select {\cs33\b Cells} on the {\cs33\b Insert} menu, and choose the direction in which you want the surrounding cells to move in order to make way for the insertion.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar To insert rows:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Position the cursor in the row you want to be immediately BELOW the new row(s).

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select {\cs33\b Rows} on the {\cs33\b Insert} menu and enter the number of rows required.
\par \pard\plain \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To insert columns:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Position the cursor in the column you want to be immediately to the RIGHT of the new column(s).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select {\cs33\b Columns} on the {\cs33\b Insert} menu and enter the number of columns required.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Protecting cells (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 unprotecting freeze freezing frozen protection lock worksheet unprotected cells
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The worksheet can be locked to prevent any changes being 
made to the information it contains. You can also remove the protection from certain cells before locking the worksheet; the information in the unprotected cells can then be changed while leaving the remainder protected.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar Locking the worksheet is done in two stages:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Remove the protection from any cells you want to be able to change, by highlighting the cells, selecting {\cs33\b Protection} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu and removing the tick from {\cs33\b Protect cell(s)}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Lock the worksheet, by selecting {\cs33\b Protection} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu and ticking {\cs33\b Lock} {\cs33\b worksheet}.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 This means that cells containing critical information like formulae can be protected before, e.g., giving the spreadsheet to a workgroup.
\par A padlock symbol appears at the right end of the input line when the cursor is on a protected cell and the worksheet is locked.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Formulae (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 autosum button sigma formulae Formulas ranges range painting circular references arrows
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Use formulae to perform the same calculation on different sets of numbers, e.g. when working out the sales tax on a number of differently priced products.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar To use a formula:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Put the components of the calculation, e.g. price and tax rate, in separate cells and note their cell references, e.g. A1 and B1.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}In another cell, type = followed by the calculation to be performed using the cell references, e.g. =A1*B1. If the cells used in the formula have been \ldblquote named\rdblquote 
, you can use these names, e.g. =Price*Tax.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Some functions can use ranges instead of normal cell references, e.g. AVERAGE(A1:A4).

\par \pard\plain \s24\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab Press Enter to see the result in the cell that contains the formula.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If you place the cursor at the end of a row or column of numbers and press the SUM button {\cs34\scaps\f25\cf13 ARCHIVE=SHEET NAME=sum-button} on the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}
, Sheet inserts the formula for calculating the total of those numbers in the current cell.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You can now perform "what if" calculations by changing the numbers in the cells which the formula refers to. The result will update automatically.
\par When entering a range, you can highlight the cells on the worksheet and Sheet will automatically insert the range in the formula. This is called "range painting".
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
A cell which refers to itself in a formula, directly or indirectly, causes a circular reference, indicated by a circular arrows sign {\cs34\scaps\f25\cf13 ARCHIVE=SHEET NAME=circularreference}
 in the input line. Results of calculations that involve circular references may be incorrect.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Formulas insert functions f(x) fx
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Sheet has a large number of functions available for performing operations on the worksheet. They are divided into the following types:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Financial: for calculations that involve, e.g., interest or loan repayments.

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Date & Time: for calculations that involve time.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Mathematical: for calculations such as square roots and logarithms.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Statistical: for calculations such as averages and sums of sets of numbers.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Lookup: for locating information within ranges.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Text: for performing actions on text contained in cells.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Logical: for logical testing of information on the worksheet.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Information: for returning information about cells on the worksheet.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Each group has a help topic showing the list of functions and how to use them.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar To use a function, either type it in or:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tap the Function button, or select {\cs33\b Function} on the {\cs33\b Insert} menu.

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select the function you require and add your variables to the expression on the input line.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Operators (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 plus minus divided by adding subtracting multiplying dividing comparisons logical operators arithmetic equals
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Use the following operators in calculations and formulae:
\par {\cs33\b Arithmetic operators:
\par }+, -, *, / for addition, subtraction, multiplication and division.
\par ^\tab for raising to a power (e.g. squaring or cubing)
\par -\tab unary minus (to make a number negative)
\par {\cs33\b Comparison operators:
\par }>\tab greater than
\par >=\tab greater than or equal to
\par <\tab less than
\par <=\tab less than or equal to
\par =\tab equal to
\par <>\tab not equal to
\par {\cs33\b Logical operators:
\par }NOT:\tab for negating conditions in IF tests
\par AND:\tab for linking conditions in IF tests
\par OR:\tab for specifying alternative conditions in IF tests.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Operator precedence (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 parentheses priority parenthesis brackets
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Operator precedence is the order in which Sheet solves calculations; this order is important as it affects the results. Sheet evaluates sums according to the following order:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 ( ) information in brackets
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}^ powers
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}* and / (equal importance), solved left to right.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 4.\tab}+ and - (equal importance), solved left to right.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 5.\tab}All comparison operators.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 6.\tab}NOT.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 7.\tab}AND and OR (equal importance), solved left to right.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 When inserting brackets in a formula, do not use 
implicit multiplication such as 5(4+5). Use the * operator instead.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Recalculation (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 preferences auto recalculation plus minus positive +?- polarity recalculate now
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Sheet updates answers to calculations whenever one of their components is changed. You might want to disable this feature if you are updating a lot of figures and don't want the worksheet to be continually recalculating.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To turn{\cs33\b  auto recalculation} off, use {\cs33\b Preferences} on the {
\cs33\b Tools} menu and remove the tick from {\cs33\b Auto} {\cs33\b recalculation}. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}A +?- {\cs34\scaps\f25\cf13 ARCHIVE=SHEET NAME=recalculation} sign appears at the right end of the input line if recalculation is needed. Use {\cs33\b Recalculate} {\cs33\b now} on the {\cs33\b Tools}
 menu to recalculate. You can continue using other Sheet features while it is recalculating.
\par \pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 ##add freeze panes button to next topic##
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Adding titles (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Fix freezing panes add titles Header headings locking freeze panes frozen
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You can create "titles" for columns and rows by "freezing" panes (horizontal or vertical areas of cells) which will stay in place when you scroll the worksheet. To do this:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Enter text in the cells which are to be the column and row titles (for example, row 1 and column A).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Move to the cell immediately below the row you want to freeze and to the right of the column you want to freeze (in the above example this is B2).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 If the cursor is in cell A1 panes cannot be frozen.
\par \pard\plain \s24\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab Tap the {\cs33\b Freeze} {\cs33\b panes} button {\cs34\scaps\f25\cf13 ARCHIVE=SHEET NAME=freezepanesbutton} on the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}, or use {\cs33\b Freeze} {\cs33\b panes}
 on the {\cs33\b View} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 A line will separate the frozen panes from the scrolling area.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Any cells which are above a frozen row or to the left of a frozen column, will not scroll when you move around the screen.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Ranges (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 naming areas insert names named areas
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 A "range" is a reference to a block of cells and consists of the cell references of the top left and bottom right corners of the block, separated by a colon, e.g. A3:D8.
\par Use ranges to refer to areas of the worksheet when creating:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Formulae for calculations, e.g. =SUM(A3:A8)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Graphs from numbers stored on the worksheet.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To create a range: highlight the cells to include in the range.
\par To name a range or cell:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Highlight the range or cell, then use {\cs33\b Add name} from the {\cs33\b 
Names }cascade on the {\cs33\b Insert} menu to add a name, e.g. 'Outgoings'. You can use this name in sums and formulae, e.g. =Sum(Outgoings). You can edit the range name using {\cs33\b Edit name }on the {\cs33\b Names }cascade on the Insert menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
To help keep track of ranges, put labels in adjacent cells, or use the borders and shading options.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Graphs (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Charts create new graphs rename graph multiple graphs
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Graphs are based on ranges of cells on the worksheet.
\par To create a graph: highlight a range of cells and tap the {\cs33\b Graph} button on the {\cs33\b Toolbar}. This will create a graph called Graph 1. To rename this, use the command on the {\cs33\b Graphs} menu.
\par To create further graphs: highlight another range in the Sheet view and select {\cs33\b Create} {\cs33\b new} {\cs33\b graph} on the {\cs33\b Graphs} menu in the Graph view. To move between graphs, tap on the furthest left button on the {\cs33\b 
Top toolbar}.
\par While viewing a graph, use the menu commands and {\cs33\b Toolbar} buttons in the Graph view to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Add more ranges.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Add labels, titles and legends.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Change the graph display from 2D to 3D.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Print the graph.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Replacing graph ranges (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 replace ranges Charts change graphs
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 When you create a graph, it is "locked" to the range you specified. The graph will reflect changes to the data within that range, but will not reflect any other ranges highlighted on the worksheet.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar To replace the current graph range with a new one:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 In the Sheet view, highlight the new range to be portrayed in the graph.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Switch to the Graph view and press the {\cs33\b Set ranges} button on the {\cs33\b Top toolbar} or use the command on the {\cs33\b Ranges} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Graph settings (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 formatting graphs graph titles graph type formatting charts legends 3d 3-dimensional format x-axis format y-axis show titles show range labels change range
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To customise a graph:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Change its "type", e.g. to a bar graph or X/Y Scatter graph, by tapping the 
{\cs33\b Type} button on the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}, and select the graph type you want.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Choose between 2D and 3D presentation, by tapping the {\cs33\b 3D} button on the {\cs33\b Top toolbar}, or using {\cs33\b Graph settings} on the {\cs33\b Graphs} menu and ticking {\cs33\b 3-dimensional}.

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Add legends, by tapping the {\cs33\b Legends} button on the {\cs33\b Top toolbar} and choosing a position, or using {\cs33\b Graph settings} on the {\cs33\b Graphs} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Add titles, by selecting {\cs33\b Graph} {\cs33\b settings} on the {\cs33\b Graphs} menu, and entering the title. The appearance of the title can be changed by selecting {\cs33\b Title} {\cs33\b font} on the {
\cs33\b Graphs} menu and setting the formatting options.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Add labels to each element of a range, e.g. at the top of each bar, by selecting the type of label required on the {\cs33\b Labels} page of the {\cs33\b Change} {\cs33\b range} dialog.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Add titles to the axes, by using {\cs33\b Format X-axis} and {\cs33\b Format Y-axis} on the {\cs33\b Axes} menu, ticking the {\cs33\b Show title} box and typing in the title.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Turn axis labels off, by removing the ticks from the {\cs33\b Show range labels} boxes in the {\cs33\b Format X-axis} and {\cs33\b Format Y-axis} dialogs.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The formatting of titles and labels can be changed by tapping on them.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Axis markings on graphs (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 format x-axis format y-axis tick marks grid lines Show minor grid lines range where axes cross
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Put major and minor "tick marks" across the axes of graphs and add grid lines to make divisions and values clearer.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 A tick mark is a small line which helps divide the X and Y axis into smaller sections.

\par \pard\plain \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To add tick marks:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tap the axis to which you want to add tick marks, or select {\cs33\b Format Y-Axis}
 or {\cs33\b Format X-axis} on the {\cs33\b Axes} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select the {\cs33\b Other} page in the dialog. Choose the type of tick marks required.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tick marks can be inside, outside or across the axis.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To add grid lines:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tap the axis to which you want to add grid lines or select {\cs33\b Format Y-axis}
 or {\cs33\b Format X-axis} on the {\cs33\b Axes} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select the {\cs33\b Other} page and tick {\cs33\b Show major grid lines} and/or {\cs33\b Show minor grid lines}.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To change the point at which the Y-axis crosses the X-axis: alter the {\cs33\b Range where axes cross} value in the {\cs33\b Format X-axis} dialog.
\par To hide an axis altogether: remove the tick from {\cs33\b Show axis} line on the {\cs33\b Other} page in the {\cs33\b Format X-axis} or {\cs33\b Format Y-axis} dialogs.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Shading graphs (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Chart change range appearance range name fill style fill colours line colours fill colors line colors
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To customise the appearance of the graph, change the:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Background and text colours, by selecting {\cs33\b Graph settings} on the {
\cs33\b Graphs} menu and using the {\cs33\b Colours} page. Select the colours for the title and label text, and for the screen background.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Shading options for each range, by selecting {\cs33\b Change} {\cs33\b range} on the {\cs33\b Ranges} menu and using the {\cs33\b Appearance} page. Choose the range you want to edit in the {\cs33\b Range} {
\cs33\b name} line, then use the {\cs33\b Fill} {\cs33\b style}, {\cs33\b Fill} {\cs33\b colour} and {\cs33\b Line} {\cs33\b colour} lines to create the style for that range.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Adding ranges to graphs (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 add range pie charts more ranges
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To display a number of ranges on the same graph, e.g., to compare sets of monthly figures for several different years:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Once a one-range graph has been created, highlight the next range in the Sheet view and go to the Graph view.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select {\cs33\b Add range} on the {\cs33\b Ranges} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
"Pie chart" graphs only display the first of the ranges selected in the Sheet view. A graph with multiple ranges can be created by selecting several columns or rows before switching to the Graph view.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Changing cell information formats (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 general fixed scientific percent triad true/false currency Data type formatting cells number format
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The information format can be changed for individual cells, individual ranges or for the whole worksheet.
\par To change the format for selected cells, select {\cs33\b Number} on the {\cs33\b Format} menu, and select the appropriate settings in the dialog.
\par Sheet can display information in the following formats:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b General}
: this displays numbers in standard notation, with decimal places if required. It aligns text to the left side of a cell, and numbers to the right.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Fixed}: this displays numbers with a specified number of decimal places.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Scientific}: this displays values as a single digit to the left of the decimal point, a specified number of decimal places, and then an exponent.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Currency}: this prefixes numbers with your chosen currency sign.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Percent}: this displays numbers as percentages with a % sign after them. 1 is taken to be 100%, so 0.45 will be displayed as 45%.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Triad}: this splits long numbers before the decimal point into groups of 3 digits, e.g. 3,000,000.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b True/False}: in this format, a value of 0 will be displayed as FALSE, while all other values are displayed as TRUE.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Text}: this treats all information as text.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Date & Time}: a variety of formats which display dates and times in a range of styles.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Times and dates (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To enter a date: type the day, month and year, separating them with spaces, e.g. '29\~10\~73'. You can also use '29\~Oct\~73'.
\par To enter a time: type the hours, minutes and seconds, separating them with colons, e.g. '14:10:25'.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The time and date will be displayed
 according to the "Number format" settings for the particular cells.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Display preferences (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 show grid lines show grid labels show zero values scroll bars scrollbars
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Change the way the worksheet looks by setting {\cs33\b Preferences} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To hide the grid in the Sheet view: remove the tick from the {\cs33\b 
Show grid lines} box.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If the worksheet is printed while grid lines are displayed, the grid lines will be printed as well.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To hide the labels on the top and left sides of the worksheet, remove the 
tick from the {\cs33\b Show grid labels} box.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To permanently hide or display either of the scroll bars, tap either {\cs33\b Off} or {\cs33\b On} on the {\cs33\b Horizontal} and {\cs33\b Vertical scroll bar} lines.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The {\cs33\b Auto}
 setting for scroll bars means they will automatically appear whenever your work extends off the present screen area.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To display results of calculations that come to zero, tick the {\cs33\b 
Show zero values} box.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Cutting, copying & pasting (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Formulas Paste special
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Cells can be copied and pasted in Sheet using the {\cs33\b Cut}, {\cs33\b Copy} and {\cs33\b Paste} commands.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Where a cell contains a formula, it is the formula which is copied, not the value displayed in the cell. When the formula is pasted into the new cell it will refer to an equivalent range of cells relative to its new position (except when using 'absolute r
eferences').
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To paste into an area different in size and shape from the area copied, highlight the top left-hand cell of the new area and then select Paste from the {\cs33\b Edit }menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If the new area is larger than the copied one, Sheet will repeat the information as many times as it takes to fill the area. This will only work, however, if the information can be repeated a whole number of times in the new area.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Use {\cs33\b Paste special} from the {\cs33\b Paste }cascade on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Overwrite the information in the cells you are pasting to.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Paste the values that appear in cells, rather than the formulae stored in them.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Add the new values to, or subtract the new values from, the values in the cells you are pasting to.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Multiply or divide the new values by the values in the cells you are pasting to.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Paste only part of the information in the new cells, such as formatting, in the cells you are pasting to.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 If the area you are copying from contains blank cells, select {\cs33\b 
Skip empty cells} from {\cs33\b Paste special} on the {\cs33\b Paste }cascade on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu to prevent these empty cells overwriting anything in the pasting area.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Keypresses (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 ctrl fn keyboard
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 These are the default keypresses:
\par Fn+left arrow key - go to column A.
\par Fn+right arrow key - go to the right most column of the sheet.
\par Ctrl+Fn+up arrow key - go to row 1.
\par Ctrl+Fn+down arrow key - go to the bottom most row of the sheet.
\par Ctrl+Fn+left arrow key - go to cell A1.
\par Ctrl+Fn+right arrow key - go to the bottom right cell of the sheet.
\par Ctrl+Space select a whole column.
\par Ctrl+Tab select a whole row.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Mathematical functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Maths functions abs acos asin atan2 cos degrees exp fact tan trunc sumproduct sqrt sin sign rand round radians int pi mod log10 ln
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Sheet has a wide range of mathematical functions as follows:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The results of trigonometric calculations are displayed in radians.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 ABS(value) returns the absolute value of a number, i.e. regardless of whether it is positive or negative.
\par ACOS(value) returns the arcCosine (inverse cosine) of a value.
\par ASIN(value) returns the arcSine (inverse sine) of a value.
\par ATAN(value) returns the arcTangent (inverse tangent) of a value.
\par ATAN2(x_value,y_value) returns the angle, in radians, whose tangent is y/x.
\par COS(value) returns the cosine of a number.
\par DEGREES(value) converts a given value from radians into degrees.
\par EXP(value) returns the value of e raised to a given number.
\par FACT(value) returns the factorial of a given number.
\par INT(value) rounds a value down to the nearest whole number.
\par LN(value) returns the natural logarithm of a number.
\par LOG10(value) returns the base-10 logarithm of a value.
\par MOD(value1,value2) returns the remainder (called the modulus) when value1 is divided by value2.
\par PI: use this to insert pi in a cell, sum or formula.
\par RADIANS(value) converts a given value from degrees into radians.
\par RAND returns a random number between zero and one. Use +RAND to insert a random number in a cell which does not change with each recalculation.
\par ROUND(number,number_of_digits) to round a number to a given number of digits. Make the second number a negative to round to a digit to the left of the decimal point. E.g. -2 to round to the nearest 100.
\par SIGN(value) indicates the sign of a number or of the number contained in a given cell. It returns 1 if the sign is positive, -1 if the sign is negative, and 0 if the number is 0.
\par SIN(value) returns the sine of a number.
\par SQRT(value) returns the square root of a number.
\par SUMPRODUCT(range1,range2) returns the sum of the products of corresponding items in two ranges. I.e., the first item in range1 is multiplied by the first item in range2, the second by the second, and so on. The result is the sum total of all these product
s.
\par TAN(value) returns the tangent of a number.
\par TRUNC(value) returns a number or the number stored in a cell with any fraction removed. So, =TRUNC(5.845) returns 5. TRUNC and INT only differ where the value is negative, as INT always rounds down to the lower number, where TRUNC just removes the section
 after the decimal point.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Statistical functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 testing stats combin permut average choose varp sum stdevp product min counta countblank max
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The statistics functions are as follows:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Where a function requires a list of items between brackets, sepa
rate the items with commas. Alternatively, insert a range or a range name in the brackets.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 COMBIN(n1,n2) returns the number of possible unique groups containing n2 number of items that could be made from a given total number of items, n1.
\par PERMUT(n1,n2) returns the number of possible permutations for a number, n2, of items selected from a given total number of items, n1. Unlike COMBIN, PERMUT treats the order of the possible groups as being important, so xy is different from yx.
\par AVERAGE(list) returns the average of the numbers in the list. E.g. =AVERAGE(3,4,5,6) returns 4.5.
\par CHOOSE(x,list) returns the xth item in the list, taking the first item to be number 1. The list may contain both text strings and values.
\par COUNT(list) returns the number of cells in the list which contain numerical information. Blank cells are not counted.
\par COUNTA(list) returns the number of cells in the list which contain any information. This excludes blank cells, but includes those which contain blank text (i.e. where the cell contains a ' mark).
\par COUNTBLANK(list) returns the number of blank cells in the list. This counts cells which contain blank text, or formulae which return blank text.
\par MAX(list) returns the maximum value in a list. MAX takes account of + and - signs, so 2 is larger than -10.
\par MIN(list) returns the minimum value in a list. MIN takes account of + and - signs, so -10 is smaller than 2.
\par PRODUCT(list) calculates the product of a list of values.
\par STDEVP(list) returns the standard deviation of the values in the list, treating them as a population.
\par STDEV(list) returns the standard deviation of the values in the list, treating them as a sample.
\par SUM(list) returns the sum of a list of values.
\par SUMSQ(list) calculates the sum of the squares of a list of values. E.g. =SUMSQ(3,5) returns 34.
\par VARP(list) returns the population variance of a list of values, treating them as a population.
\par VAR(list) returns the variance of values in a list, treating them as a sample.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Date & time functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 datevalue day hour minute month now second today timevalue year
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The date and time functions in Sheet treat both dates and times as numbers.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Dates use a count of days that takes 31/12/1899 as 1. Thus, 1/1/1900 has a value of 2, and 31/07/1997 has a value of 35642.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Times use a count that takes midnight as 0, noon as 0.5, and just before midnight as 0.999\'85
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 DATE(year,month,day) returns the day number for the specified year, month and day.
\par DATEVALUE(datestring) returns the appropriate number, given the date string. E.g. =DATEVALUE("31 Jul 97") returns a value of 35642.
\par DAY(x) returns the day of the month (1 to 31) according to the day number x. E.g., =DAY(15476) returns 15, since day 15476 is the 15th of the month.
\par HOUR(x) returns the hour number between 0 and 23, according to the time value x. E.g., =HOUR(0.6) returns 14.
\par MINUTE(x) returns the minute number between 0 and 59, according to the time value x. E.g., =MINUTE(0.612) returns 41.
\par MONTH(x) returns the month number between 1 and 12, according to the day value x. E.g., =MONTH(15476) returns 5, since day 15476 falls in May.
\par NOW returns the value of the present time, combining both date and time numbers. E.g. 35642.5 is noon on 31/07/1997.
\par SECOND(x) returns the second number between 0 and 59, according to the time number x. E.g., =SECOND(0.612) returns 16.
\par TODAY returns the day number of the current day.
\par TIME(hour,minute,second) returns the time number for the specified hour, minute and second.
\par TIMEVALUE(timestring) returns the appropriate number, given the timestring. E.g., =TIMEVALUE("15:52:12") returns 0.66125.
\par YEAR(x) returns the year number (from 0 to 255) from the day number x. E.g., =YEAR(35642) returns 97, since day 35642 falls in 1997.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Lookup functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 address columns hlookup index vlookup rows offset at
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The lookup functions are as follows:
\par ADDRESS(row_number,column_number) returns an absolute cell reference as a string, given the row and column numbers. So, =ADDRESS(5,4) returns '$D$5'.
\par COLUMN(x) returns the column number of a cell, or the number of the first column in a range.
\par COLUMNS(range) returns the number of columns in a range.
\par HLOOKUP(x,range,offset) looks along the top row of a range until it finds x. It then counts down to the cell which is offset rows below, taking the row that x is in as 1, and returns the value contained in that cell. The values in the first row of the ran
ge must be in ascending order.
\par INDEX(range,column,row) returns the contents of the cell at position (column,row) in range, where the top left cell in range is column 1, row 1.
\par INDIRECT(x) returns the information stored in the first cell that the cell x refers to. So, if B5 contains 'A2' and A2 contains '6', the function =AT(B5) will return 6.
\par LOOKUP(x,range1,range2) looks for x (either a string or a number) in range1, then returns the value in the corresponding cell in range2. Each of the ranges should be either a single row or a single column of cells, and they must both be equal in length.

\par OFFSET(reference,rows,columns) returns a new reference offset by rows and columns from the one you specify. Use p
ositive numbers for rows and columns to offset right and down, and negative ones to offset left and up. If a range is specified in reference, the offset will be from the top left corner of the range.
\par ROW(x) returns the row number of a cell, or the number of the first row in a range.
\par ROWS(range) returns the number of rows in a range.
\par VLOOKUP(x,range,offset) works the same way as HLOOKUP, but counts down first, then across. The values in the first column of the range must be in ascending order.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Logical functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 false true if then and not or
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The logical functions are as follows:
\par FALSE returns FALSE or 0.
\par TRUE returns TRUE or 1.
\par IF(x,then,else) where x, then and else may be cell references, values or expressions. Returns the value of then if x is non-zero (true), or the value of else if x is zero (false).
\par Sheet has 3 logical operators:
\par AND: use this to link more than one condition in an IF expression where both conditions must be true. E.g. =IF(D2>2000 AND D3>15000,"Taxable","No tax") will return 'Taxabl
e' only if the conditions for both D2 and D3 are met. Otherwise it will return 'No tax'.
\par NOT: use this to negate the condition in an IF test. E.g. IF(NOT A1+A2=3,1,0) will return 1 if the sum of A1+A2 is NOT equal to 3.
\par OR: use this to link more than one condition in an IF test where only one of the conditions must be true. E.g. IF(A1=1 OR A1=2,1,0) will return 1 if A1 contains either 1 or 2, but will return a 0 in any other case.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Information functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 cell error.type istext isnumber isnontext iserrors isna islogical isblank
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The information functions are as follows:
\par CELL(information,range) returns a type of information about the upper left cell in a range.The text string, 'information' can have the values "ROW", "COL", "ADDRESS" or "CONTENTS", which return the row number, column number, cell reference or the contents
 respectively.
\par ERROR.TYPE(x) returns a number between 1 and 7, according to the type of error value that exists in cell x. The numbers signify the following errors:
\par 1\tab #NULL!: the information in the cell refers to an intersection of ranges that do not in fact intersect.
\par 2\tab #DIV/0: the information in the cell involves division by zero.
\par 3\tab #VALUE!: a formula contains the wrong kind of item, such as =3+"ghost".
\par 4\tab #REF!: the cell contains an invalid reference.
\par 5\tab #NAME?: the cell contains a reference to an invalid name.
\par 6\tab #NUM!: the information in the cell involves an impossible calculation, or one whose result lies outside of Sheet's range.
\par 7\tab #N/A: no information is available for the current cell.
\par ISBLANK(x) returns TRUE if x contains no information, or FALSE if x contains information.
\par ISERR(x) where x is a cell reference returns TRUE if the value in x is any error except #N/A, otherwise it returns FALSE.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Any cells which refer to other cells containing either an error or #N/A will also display the error or #N/A. To check for this ripple-through effect use ISERR or ISNA
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 ISNA(x) where x is a cell reference returns TRUE if the value in x is #N/A, or FALSE if the value in x is not #N/A.
\par ISERROR(x) where x is a cell reference returns TRUE if the value in x is any error, otherwise it returns FALSE.
\par ISLOGICAL(x) returns TRUE if the information in cell x is logical, FALSE if it is not.
\par ISNONTEXT(x) returns TRUE if the information in x is not text, or FALSE if the information in x is text.
\par ISNUMBER(x) returns TRUE if x is a number or a cell containing either a number or a formula which returns a number. Otherwise it returns FALSE.
\par ISTEXT(x) returns TRUE if the information in x is text, or FALSE if the information in x is not text.
\par N(x) returns the number in a cell or in the top left cell of a range. If the cell does not contain a number, Sheet returns FALSE.
\par TYPE(x) returns a code according to the type of information x contains. The codes are:
\par 1\tab Number.
\par 2\tab Text.
\par 4\tab Logical value.
\par 8\tab Formula.
\par 16\tab Error value.
\par T(x) returns the text contained in a cell or in the top left cell of a range. If the cell does not contain text, blank text (an "empty string") is returned.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Text functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 char code exact find left len value upper trim string right rept replace proper mid lower
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The text functions are as follows:
\par & joins together ("concatenates") one or more text strings. So, ="here"&"and"&"now" will return 'hereandnow'.
\par CHAR(x) returns the character indicated by the character code x.
\par CODE(string) returns the character code for the first character in string. E.g. =CODE("Hillcrest") returns the value 72, the character code for 'H'.
\par EXACT(string1,string2) will return TRUE if string1 is exactly the same as string2, otherwise it will return FALSE. The comparison takes account of case and accents.
\par FIND(searchstring,string,start_position) returns the position in string where searchstring starts. The search begins at start_position. Make start position 1 to start searching from the first character, 2 to start at the second, and so on.
\par LEFT(string,n) returns the first n letters of string. E.g. =LEFT("discotheque",5) will return 'disco'.
\par LEN(string) returns the number of characters, including spaces, in the string. E.g. =LEN("Hillcrest") will return the value 9.
\par LOWER(string) returns the string converted entirely to lower case. E.g. =LOWER("Clive") will return 'clive'.
\par MID(string,start_position,n) returns a string n characters long, taken from the start_position in string. For the start position, 0 is the first character, 1 the second and so on.
\par PROPER(string) returns the string with the first letter of each word in upper case and the rest in lower case. E.g. =PROPER("clive browning") returns 'Clive Browning'.
\par REPLACE(string,start_position,n,newstring) removes n characters from string, starting from start_position, then inserts newstring at start_position, and returns the resulting string. E.g. =REPLACE("electorate",6,5,"ion") returns 'election'.
\par REPT(string,n) returns string repeated n times. E.g. =REPT("*",50) will return a bar ***** 50 characters long.
\par RIGHT(string,n) returns the last n letters of a string. E.g. =RIGHT("farmhouse",5) will return 'house'.
\par STRING(x,n) returns a number x as a string to n decimal places. So, =STRING(3.1416,3) returns the string '3.142'.
\par TRIM(string) returns the string with leading and trailing spaces removed, and reduces multiple spaces to a single space.
\par UPPER(string) returns the string converted to upper case.
\par VALUE(string) converts a string to a number. E.g. =VALUE("45.9") returns the number 45.9.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Cash flow functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 irr npv financial
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The financial functions include functions for dealing with cash flow.
\par In these functions, the item cash_flows should be a range refere
nce, e.g. D2:D8, for cells containing the initial cost of the investment and the receipts resulting from it. Arrange these in chronological order, with the initial outlay in the first cell. Make all expenditures negative amounts, and all receipts positive
.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 When using these functions:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Enter rates as a percentage or a decimal, e.g. 17.5% or 0.175.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Enter interest rates for the same unit of time as the term. So if you use 8 as the term to indicate 8 months, use the interest rate per month rather than per year.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 IRR(guess,cash_flows) calculates the Internal Rate of Return of a an investment, to give the approximate interest rate earned. 'Guess' is a number you suppose to be close to the IRR.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Cash flows are assumed to occur at equal intervals. If there are no receipts for a period, leave the cell blank.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 NPV(interest,cash_flows) calculates the Net Present Value of an investment: what it would be worth if you had it as a lump sum now rather than a future receipt. Interest is the interest rate per receipt pe
riod. NPV assumes the receipt occurs at the beginning of the period. If receipt occurs at the end of the period, use the formula:
\par npv = first_receipt + NPV(interest,remaining_receipts)
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Lump sum investments (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 cterm rate financial
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The financial functions include functions for dealing with lump sum investments. These assume an investment earns a fixed rate of interest.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Enter rates as a percentage or a decimal, e.g. 17.5% or 0.175.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Enter interest rates for the same unit of time as the term. So if 8 is used as the term to indicate 8 months, use the interest rate per month rather than per year.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 CTERM(interest,future_value,principal) returns the number of periods it will take for an investment of principal to reach future_value at a given interest rate. CTERM uses the formula:
\par term = ln(future_value/principal)/ln(1+interest)
\par RATE(future_value,principal,periods) returns the interest rate for an investment, principal, to reach future_value over the given number of periods. RATE uses the formula:
\par interest rate = ((future_value/principal){\super 1/periods}) - 1
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Interest rates are often calculated for a month. The annual rate of interest cannot be calculated by multiplying this rate by 12. Instead, use the formula:
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 annual rate = ((1+monthly rate){\super 12})-1
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Depreciation functions (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 sln syd ddb double declining balance straight-line depreciation sum of the years digits sum-of-the-years-digits financial
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The financial functions include functions for calculating the depreciation in value of an asset over time. They use the terms:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Cost: the initial outlay on the asset.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Salvage: the value at the end of its life.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Life: the number of periods of the assets life.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Period: the length of time of a period of depreciation.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 SLN(cost,salvage,life) returns the depreciation per period for the asset's life. SLN assumes that the asset loses the same amount of its value during each period, and uses the formula:
\par depreciation per period=(cost-salvage)/life.
\par SYD(cost,salvage,life,period) returns the depreciation per period, assuming that the asset loses more of its value at the beginning of its life than at the end. SYD uses the formula:
\par depreciation per period= (cost-salvage)*(life-period+1)/(life*(life+1)/2).
\par DDB(cost,salvage,life,period) returns the depreciation per period, assuming that the asset loses much more of its value at the beginning of its life than at the end. DDB uses the formula:
\par depreciation per period=(book value*2)/life
\par where
\par book value at the start of each period= (total cost-total depreciation over all previous periods).
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Annuities & loans (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 fv pv pmt term borrowed interest payments periodic payment financial
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The financial functions include functions for calculating annuity investments and loan payments.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Enter rates as a percentage or a decimal, e.g. 17.5% or 0.175.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Enter interest rates for the same unit of time as the term. So if 8 is used as the term to indicate 8 months, use the interest rate per month rather than per year.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b Annuity investments:
\par }An annuity is an investment of a series of equal payments earning a fixed rate of interest, e.g. a savings account into which you pay \'a3500 a month.
\par FV(interest,term,payment) returns the matured value of an investment given the interest rate, the term, and the payment per period. FV uses the formula:
\par fv=payment*(((1+interest){\super term})-1)/interest
\par where term is the number of periods.
\par PV(interest,term,payment) returns the present value of an investment given the interest rate, the term, and the payment per period. PV uses the formula:
\par present_value = payment * (1-(1+interest){\super -n}) / interest.
\par TERM(payments,interest,future_value) returns the number of payments needed to accumulate future_value from a series of payments earning a periodic interest rate. TERM uses the formula:
\par number of payments= ln(1+future_value*interest/payment))/ln(1+interest)
\par where ln is the natural logarithm.
\par {\cs33\b Loan payments:
\par }PMT(interest,term,principal) returns the amount to be repaid per period on a loan, given the interest rate, the number of repayment periods and the principal amount loaned.
\par The function assumes repayment is made at the end of each period. If repayment is at the beginning of each period, use the formula =PMT(interest,term,principal)/(1+interest). PMT uses the formula:
\par payment=principal*interest/(1-(1+interest){\super -term}).
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Sorting (Sheet)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 alphabetical order re-order sorted sort rows sort columns
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You can sort the information in rows and columns in ascending or descending order. You can specify the sort order for up to three rows or columns at a time.
\par {\b To sort rows:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Highlight the rows which you want to sort.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select {\cs33\b Sort|Left-to-right} from the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Specify the first row you want to sort on the {\cs33\b 1st row} line, and the order in which you want to sort it.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 4.\tab}To sort more than one row, select the row on the {\cs33\b 2nd row} and then the {\cs33\b 3rd row} lines, and select the order in which you want to sort.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 If you want to make the sort order case sensitive for one or more rows, tap the {
\cs33\b Options} button and tick the box beside the row.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b To sort columns:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Highlight the columns which you want to sort.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select {\cs33\b Sort|Top-to-bottom} from the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Select the first column you want to sort on the {\cs33\b 1st column} line, and the order in which you want to sort it.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 4.\tab}To sort more than one column, select the column on the {\cs33\b 2}{\cs33\b\super nd}{\cs33\b  column} and {\cs33\b 3rd column} lines, and then select the order in which you want to sort.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 If you want to make the sort order case sensitive for one or more columns, tap the {
\cs33\b Options} button and tick the box beside the column.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par }