{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f23\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Webdings;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\fs28\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\sa120\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs18\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11
\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon29\snext15 Note;}{\s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 List Bullet;}{
\s17\li284\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext17 List Continue;}{\s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext18 List Number;}{\*\cs19 \additive\super 
\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s20\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext20 List Bullet 2;}{\s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 
Hypertext Anchor;}{\*\cs22 \additive\b\f11\fs20 \sbasedon10 Key Name;}{\s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext23 Synonyms;}{\s24\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon18\snext24 List Manual;}{
\s25\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext25 List Number 2;}{\s26\li566\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext26 List Continue 2;}{\s27\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext27 Definition Term;}{\s28\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon27\snext28 Definition Definition;}{\s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext29 Tip;}{\s30\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ~}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon15\snext30 Important;}{\s31\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon25\snext31 List Manual 2;}{\s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext32 Comment;}{\*\cs33 \additive\b\f5\fs20 \sbasedon10 App Text;}{\*\cs34 \additive\scaps\f25\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon10 Graphic Link;}{
\s35\sa120\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext35 footer;}{\*\cs36 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s37\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext37 annotation text;}{
\s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext38 Category UID;}{\s39\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'a2}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext39 Context;}{\s40\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb i}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext40 Index;}{\*\cs41 \additive\i\f5\fs20\ulnone\cf0\nosupersub 
\sbasedon10 Context Comment;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Symbian;}}{\info{\title "PROTEA HELP FILE - GENERAL"," }{\author Symbian}{\operator Symbian}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy17\hr11\min45}{\revtim\yr2000\mo4\dy25\hr16\min43}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1482}{\nofchars8449}
{\*\company Psion SW}{\vern57395}}\paperw11907\paperh16834\margl567\margr7371\margt567\margb567 \facingp\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\revisions\linkstyles\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0{\*\template C:\\apps\\MSOffice\\Templates\\Other Documents\\CSHELP.DOT}\sectd 
\psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 Author: Clive Whitear
\par Date: December 21{\super st} 1998
\par Version: ER5 release
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 SYSTEM{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913834 
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 {\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913834 0x}{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913835 10000076}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 System: Quick start
\par \pard\plain \s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 {\deleted\revauth1\revdttm1178913835 system.quick-start
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Desktop Directories files run applications programs Navigate Path c: drive disk file name home folder root directory system screen home screen
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The System screen is the EPOC machine's file and program manager, displaying the files on the EPOC machine, and the folders that are used to organise the files.
\par Use the System screen to::
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Open and close files and programs.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Create new files and folders.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Change the way files and folders are displayed.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Move, copy, rename and delete files and folders.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Change the way the EPOC machine is set up by selecting {\cs33\b Control panel} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar} or {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 A {\cs33\b file} or {\cs33\b folder} in the System screen is represented as an icon, with the filename next to it. When a file is open, its filename is displayed in {\cs33\b bold}.
\par To open a {\cs33\b folder} and display the files within it, highlight it and then tap it or press Enter - the folder's name appears on the Title bar. Any files created from here are put into that folder.
\par To close a folder, highlight the (Close) icon in the top left of the System screen, and then tap it or press Enter.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If no folder name is displayed on the Title bar (or if the name is in inverted commas), then the "root" of the currently selected disk drive is open. Any files created from here are not put into a folder, but straight into 'C' or 'D'.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Password & owner information for the EPOC machine
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 security password protection personal owner information safety lost stolen user name address
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To set a password to prevent unwanted access to the EPOC machine, go to the System screen, select {\cs33\b Control panel} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar} or {\cs33\b Tools} menu, and then select the {\cs33\b 
Password} icon.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
The password does not protect files stored on Memory disks or files copied to other machines.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Important: If the password is forgotten, the machine will have to be reset, and all the files stored on the internal disk will then be lost.
\par To record personal details (such as your name and address) on the EPOC machine, in case it is lost, press {\cs33\b Owner info}.
\par Set when the owner information should be shown on the {\cs33\b Display owner infromation} line.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Once per day is the first time the machine is switched on each day.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Tick the {\cs33\b Ask for password} box to set the password.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To change a password, type in the current one first.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To change your name and contact details select {\cs33\b Owner} on the {\cs33\b Information} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Browsing folders & files (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Desktop Path Root Directory c: drive disk explorer application program attributes file type browser scan
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To use the "browser" to display files and folders on the currently selected disk drive in a "tree" structure, tap the Title bar, press the Tab key, or select {\cs33\b Browse folders} on the {\cs33\b File}
 menu.
\par Folders are displayed on the left under the disk drive; files in the current folder are displayed on the right. To open a folder, tap it or highlight it and press Tab.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
To display the files in a different order, tap the relevant 'Sort by' button (or press Ctrl+N, T, S or D to sort by Name, Type, Size or Date).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To create a new folder, go to the disk drive and folder in which it is to be created, and press {\cs33\b New folder}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To select a file on the System screen from the browser, highlight it and press {\cs33\b OK}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To open a file quickly from the browser highlight it and press Enter twice.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Bookmarks (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Desktop Path Directory Shortcut Tagging marking go to
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To "bookmark" the folder in which you keep frequently required files, move to the required folder and select {\cs33\b Set bookmark} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par To move to the bookmarked folder at any time, select {\cs33\b Go to bookmark} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
New files are created in the "standard folder" (initially the "Documents" folder) if a program icon is tapped and the last used file cannot be found. The "standard folder" can be different to the "bookmarked folder".
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Standard folder (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 desktop files
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
The "standard folder" is where new files will be created, when a program icon from the Program icon bar is tapped, and the last file that was open cannot be found (e.g. if it has been renamed, moved or deleted).
\par Initially the "Documents" folder is set as the Standard folder. To select a different folder, select {\cs33\b Preferences} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Creating a new folder (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Desktop Root subdirectory tree subfolder create new folder create new directory create directory
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Grouping files together in appropriately named folders makes them easier to find, e.g. put correspondence in a folder called 'Letters'.
\par \pard \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar {\cs33\b To create a new folder:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Move to the disk drive and folder within which a new folder is going to be created. If all folders in the current disk drive are closed, the folder will be created in the "root" ('C' or 'D').
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Select {\cs33\b New folder} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar} or {\cs33\b Folder} on the {\cs33\b Create new} cascade of the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Type in the folder name.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Folders can also be created from within the Browser.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 You might want to create folders that mirror the folders on your PC.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Renaming files, folders & disks (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 rename disk label
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To rename a file or folder, highlight it on the System screen, and select {\cs33\b Rename} on the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par To rename a disk drive, select {\cs33\b Name disk} on the {\cs33\b Disk} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Backing up & restoring (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 SSD CompactFlash card diskcopy c drive memory disk backup back up back-up restore security
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To back up the internal disk drive to an external disk:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Copy disk} on the {\cs33\b Disk} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Set the {\cs33\b From disk} line to 'C' and set the {\cs33\b To disk} line to 'D'. Leave the {\cs33\b Into folder} line blank - this means the "root" of the 'D' disk drive.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Some programs will not work properly if you back them up to the D disk.
\par \pard\plain \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To restore the items from the External disk:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Copy disk} on the {\cs33\b Disk} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Set the {\cs33\b From disk} line to 'D' and set the {\cs33\b To disk} line to 'C'. Leave the {\cs33\b Into folder} line blank - this means the "root" of the 'C' disk drive.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To just ba
ck up a few files or folders, copy them to a Memory disk. You might want to create a special backup folder on the Memory disk, called e.g. 'Backup(July)'.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Alternatively, if you have EPOC CONNECT the files on the EPOC machine can be backed up to a PC rather than to an external disk.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 File properties (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 hidden file security Read-only preferences modification date file size modified last changed
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To view the modification date of a file and its size and to view or change its read-only, hidden and modified status, highlight it on the System screen and select {\cs33\b Properties} on the {\cs33\b File}
 menu.
\par To avoid accidentally changing a file which is needed, make it "read-only" by ticking the {\cs33\b Read-only} box. Remove the tick to be able to edit it again.
\par Tick the {\cs33\b Hidden} box to make the file invisible on the System screen. A preference can be set in the System screen to make all hidden files visible.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Display preferences (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Desktop View Show hidden files application formats sort by title bar columns lists sort files
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The current disk drive and folder are shown on the Title bar, which is initially on the left of the screen. To move it to the top of the screen, select {\cs33\b Top of columns} from the {\cs33\b 
Title position }cascade on the {\cs33\b View} menu.
\par Files and folders are displayed in columns. To change the width of the columns use {\cs33\b Column width} on the {\cs33\b View} menu. Use the left and right arrow keys, or the scroll bar at the bottom of the screen, to see more files and folders.
\par File are initially sorted by program type. To sort them differently, select {\cs33\b Sort files} on the {\cs33\b View} menu, and then select:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b By name} to sort the files alphabetically.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b By size} to list them by size, with the largest first.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b By date} to list them by date when last edited, with the most recently edited first.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To display file size and/or date select {\cs33\b Show file details} on the {\cs33\b View} menu.
\par To make hidden files visible, use {\cs33\b Preferences} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Keypresses (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Desktop Keyboard task list switch off turn off browser tasklist tab ctrl fn esc
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The default keypresses are:
\par Tab or Ctrl+G - select the browser view (or tap on the name at the top of the Toolbar).
\par Hold down the Ctrl key and tap the System icon to display the list of open files and programs.
\par Fn+Esc - turn the EPOC machine off.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Searching for files (System)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 file finding file search wildcards wild cards recently used files
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To find a file you have recently used:
\par }Tap on the {\cs33\b Recent files} button on the Toolbar to see a list of the last files you have used. Tap on a filename or highlight a file and press Enter to go to the file.
\par {\cs33\b To find files with a specific name:
\par }Use {\cs33\b Find files|Find files} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu to search for files if you know part of the filename and/or the program.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Type in part of the filename on the {\cs33\b Name}
 line to find files that match it, or leave the line blank to find all files.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
The search will find any filename containing the text you enter. You can also type ? for a unknown single letter or * for any number of unknown letters (known as "wildcards").
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Use the {\cs33\b Program}
 line to find only files for a specific program, or select {\cs33\b Any} to find all files.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Press {\cs33\b OK} to start the search.
\par Files are listed as they are found.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To go to a file in the System screen highlight the filename and press {
\cs33\b Go to}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To sort the listed files by name, type, size or date, press {\cs33\b Sort} and choose the required sort type. Choose the same sort type again to reverse the sort order.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 You can stop the search while files are still being listed by pressing {\cs33\b Stop}.

\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Use {\cs33\b Find files|Find again} on the {\cs33\b Edit}
 menu to show the results of the search again (if filenames have been changed since the initial search, a new search will be performed with the same search criteria).
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 System wallpaper
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 screen logo backdrop image desktop background
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You can change the image shown in the System screen behind the icons, to an image of your choice.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Create an image in Sketch and use {\cs33\b More|Save as System wallpaper} on the {
\cs33\b File} menu to save it.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Avoid using too much dark shading, as this may obscure the icons.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If you save an image larger than the screen (the screen is 640 pixels wide by 240 pixels high) only the central part of it will appear as system wallpaper.
\par \pard\plain \s24\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab In the System screen select {\cs33\b Preferences} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu and select the {\cs33\b Wallpaper} dialog page.
\par 3.\tab Select the image you want to use and when you want it to be displayed.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Use {\cs33\b More|Delete System wallpaper} on the {\cs33\b File} menu in Sketch to remove an image you no longer require.
\par }