{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f23\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Webdings;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\fs28\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\sa120\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs18\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11
\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon29\snext15 Note;}{\s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 List Bullet;}{
\s17\li284\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext17 List Continue;}{\s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext18 List Number;}{\*\cs19 \additive\super 
\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s20\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext20 List Bullet 2;}{\s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 
Hypertext Anchor;}{\*\cs22 \additive\b\f11\fs20 \sbasedon10 Key Name;}{\s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext23 Synonyms;}{\s24\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon18\snext24 List Manual;}{
\s25\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext25 List Number 2;}{\s26\li566\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext26 List Continue 2;}{\s27\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext27 Definition Term;}{\s28\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon27\snext28 Definition Definition;}{\s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext29 Tip;}{\s30\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ~}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon15\snext30 Important;}{\s31\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon25\snext31 List Manual 2;}{\s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext32 Comment;}{\*\cs33 \additive\b\f5\fs20 \sbasedon10 App Text;}{\*\cs34 \additive\scaps\f25\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon10 Graphic Link;}{
\s35\sa120\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext35 footer;}{\*\cs36 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s37\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext37 annotation text;}{
\s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext38 Category UID;}{\s39\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'a2}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext39 Context;}{\s40\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb i}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext40 Index;}{\*\cs41 \additive\i\f5\fs20\ulnone\cf0\nosupersub 
\sbasedon10 Context Comment;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Symbian;}}{\info{\title \'93PROTEA HELP FILE - TIME\'94,}{\author Symbian}{\operator Symbian}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy17\hr16\min13}{\revtim\yr2000\mo4\dy25\hr16\min44}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1438}{\nofchars8199}
{\*\company Psion SW}{\vern57395}}\paperw11907\paperh16834\margl567\margr7371\margt567\margb567 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\revisions\linkstyles\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0{\*\template C:\\apps\\MSOffice\\Templates\\Other Documents\\CSHELP.DOT}\sectd 
\psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 Author: Clive Whitear
\par Date: December 21{\super st} 1998
\par Version: ER5 release
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 TIME{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913836 
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 {\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913836 0x10000080}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Time: Quick start
\par \pard\plain \s21\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 {\deleted\revauth1\revdttm1178913836 time.quick-start
\par }\pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 world map alarms date home
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The EPOC Time program has two views:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
The Map view - a map of the world with cities, times, dialling codes and distances.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}The Alarms view - to set, display and manage alarms.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 For the information in EPOC Time to be accurate, the current time, date and Home city needs to be set using {\cs33\b Time & date} and {\cs33\b Home} commands on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu in either view.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 World map (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 telephone sunset sunrise zone
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To display the Map view, tap {\cs33\b Map} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar}, or select the command on the {\cs33\b View} menu.
\par Next to the map are the current time, and the sunrise and sunset times, for the Home city and a selected city. A sun symbol next to the clock means that the city is in "summer time".
\par Under the map is the telephone code to dial from the Home city to the selected city, the difference in times between the two cities and the distance between them.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Alarms view (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 alarms sounds ring silent
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To display the Alarms view, tap {\cs33\b Alarms} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar}, or select {\cs33\b Alarms }from the {\cs33\b Switch view }cascade on the {\cs33\b View} menu.
\par The time until the next alarm, whether set in Time or Agenda, is given at the bottom of the screen.
\par To view the last 8 alarms to have been cleared, select {\cs33\b View past alarms} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par To view alarms that are set to ring in the future, select {\cs33\b View next alarms} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Setting the time & date
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 world clocks calendar set time set date
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To set the time and date:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 In the EPOC Time program, tap the clock in the Alarms view or select {
\cs33\b Time & date }on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}On the System screen, select {\cs33\b Time & date} on the Control panel.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tap on the date line or press Tab to browse for a date in the built in calendar.

\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Home city (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 world country town
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The "Home city" is the current location.
\par To set the Home city, select {\cs33\b Home} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu and start typing its name. If it's known to the EPOC machine, its name will be displayed with the country underneath. If not, you can add it using {\cs33\b Add city} on the {\cs33\b 
Edit} menu when in the Map view.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Use the right and left arrow keys to select the correct city and country combination.

\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Selecting countries & cities (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 world city cross-hair map places town map capital cross hair crosshair
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To select a different location on the map:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tap the location on the map.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Tap the country or city line at the bottom of the Map view.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Start typing the name of the required country or city; or use the right and left arrow keys to scroll through the available countries/cities.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 When a country is selected, its capital city is displayed.
\par The cross hairs move to the selected city, and information about the city appears at the bottom of the screen.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Alarms (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 occurrences repeats sound reminder ringing changing alarms alarm clock daily weekly repeat weekdays set alarms workdays
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Up to 8 alar
ms can be set to ring in the next 24 hours, in the next 7 days, or to repeat daily, weekly or only on workdays - e.g. a wake-up alarm for workdays, or once only alarms to provide a reminder of an appointment.
\par To set a new alarm, go to a blank line in the Alarms view and press Enter or just start typing. Alternatively, in either view, select {\cs33\b New alarm} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu or on the {\cs33\b Toolbar}.
\par Set the {\cs33\b Occurrence} line to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b Next 24 hours}
 for the alarm to ring once at the specified time within the next 24 hours.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Once only}, followed by a day, for the alarm to ring once at the specified time, more than 24 hours from now.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Daily} for the alarm to ring every day of the week at the specified time.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Weekly}, on a particular day, for the alarm to ring at the specified time on that day every week.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Workdays} for the alarm to ring at the specified time on days defined as "Workdays".
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To change the workdays, select {\cs33\b Workdays} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The Text for the alarm appears when the alarm rings, and remains on screen until the alarm has been responded to. (so don't enter text which others should not see).
\par To edit the details of an alarm, move to the relevant line and press Enter or select {\cs33\b Change alarm details} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If the same alarm sound or time is frequently used, they can be set as new alarm preferences using {\cs33\b Preferences }on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Responding to alarms (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 snoozed stop alarm ringing buzzer alarm clock silence mute clear
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 When an alarm rings, the associated text is also displayed on screen.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If the EPOC Record program is in use, the alarm sound will be delayed until the recording has stopped.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To silence the alarm but leave the text displayed, press the {\cs33\b 
Silence} button.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To "snooze" the alarm for 5 minutes, press the {\cs33\b Snooze}
 button - each further press adds 5 minutes to the "snooze" time, up to a maximum of one hour. The EPOC machine can be used while the alarm is "snoozed".
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 If the EPOC machine is closed when an ala
rm rings, it can be "snoozed" by pressing any of the voice note buttons on the outer casing.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s16\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To clear the alarm, press the {\cs33\b Clear}
 button. If it is a once only alarm, it is removed. If it is a repeating alarm, it is automatically set to the next time it is due to ring.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
When the alarm rings, switch to any program (using the Program icon bar) to automatically start a 5-minute snooze - after this time, the alarm will ring again.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 GMT offset
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 world daylight saving local time greenwich mean time BST time offset
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) is a means of calculating standard time. Each city on the world map is associated with a "GMT offset" - the number of hours and minutes that the city is in front of (+) or behind (-) GMT.
\par The time difference between the Home and selected cities shown under the map is the difference in "GMT offsets", adjusted by the "summer time" if appropriate.
\par To view or change the GMT offset, use {\cs33\b Change city details} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Silencing alarms (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 snooze stop alarm ringing buzzer alarm clock silent mute cancelled canceled LED lamp light silent for
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To silence all scheduled alarms during a particular period, e.g. the duration of a meeting or journey, tap {\cs33\b Sound} on the {\cs33\b Toolbar}, or select {\cs33\b Sound }on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.

\par Set {\cs33\b Alarm sound} to 'Silent for' and set the length of time for which alarms are to be silent.
\par If you want to silence alarms sounds indefinitely, set {\cs33\b Alarm sound} to 'Off'.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
When a 'silenced' alarm rings, the Voice notes recording light flashes and the alarm text appears on screen.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Disabling alarms (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 silence postpone disable alarms
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To stop an alarm from ringing without removing it from the Alarms view list, e.g. to suspend a wake-up alarm when on holiday, select the alarm and select {\cs33\b Disable alarm} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.

\par The alarm will be crossed out to show that it is no longer active. To make the alarm active again, repeat the above procedure.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Deleting alarms (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 cancel remove alarms delete alarms cancelled canceled
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To remove an alarm, select the alarm, and press Del or select {\cs33\b Delete alarm} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par To delete an alarm which was set in the EPOC Time program from the View next alarms dialog, highlight it and press the {\cs33\b Delete} button or key.
\par To delete an alarm set in Agenda, go to the Agenda program.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
When you delete a repeating alarm, it is deleted for all days on which it is due to repeat.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Summer time settings (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 world daylight saving time adjust time zones BST city
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Each city can be associated with a summer time zone.
\par When summer time begins in one of the zones, select {\cs33\b Summer times} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu and tick the zone.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
If the Home city is not in a zone, but is in summer time or if the Home city is in summer time and the zone it is in is not, tick {\cs33\b Home}.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 When "summer time" ends for the zone, remove the tick so that the times go back again.
\par A sun symbol next to a clock in the Map view means that the city is in summer time.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Enter reminders in EPOC Agenda for when summer time begins and ends.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Adding cities & countries (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 World map add city add country add towns new towns capital new city new country
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To add a city:}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Add city} in the {\cs33\b Edit}
 menu and fill in the details. Enter the latitude and longitude if known (this is used to work out distances and sunrise and sunset times).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Position the city on the map using the pen or arrow keys.
\par \pard\plain \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To add a country:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s18\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Add country} on the {\cs33\b Edit}
 menu and fill in the details. The 'National dial prefix' is the number that needs to be dialled immediately prior to each city area code when telephoning from one city to another within the country.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Enter the details for the country's capital city.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab}Position the capital city on the map using the pen or arrow keys.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To subsequently change any of the city/capital city details, use {\cs33\b 
Change city details} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Deleting cities & countries (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 World map delete city remove city delete country remove country delete town remove town
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 If a city added to the world map, needs to be removed, select it in the bottom left hand corner of the Map view, and then select {\cs33\b Delete city} on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par The cities and countries that have been supplied with the EPOC machine cannot be deleted. A capital city that you have added cannot be deleted unless the entire country is deleted.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Display preferences (Time)
\par \pard\plain \s23\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 world 12 24 am pm kilometres km kilometers view nautical miles analogue clock digital clock analogue clock 12/24 12-24 distance units distances
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To look at the cities in just one country, select the required country at the bottom of the Map view, and select {\cs33\b Cities in current country} on the {\cs33\b View}
 menu. Then tap on the city at the bottom and use the left and right arrow keys to scroll through the cities. To display cities for all countries again, select {\cs33\b Cities in current country }again.
\par To change between analog and digital clocks in the Map view and Toolbar, tap them.
\par To change between 12 and 24 hour clocks, the date format, or the separator characters for times and dates, select {\cs33\b Formats} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par To change the units used to display the distance between the selected and Home cities, go to the Map view and select {\cs33\b Distance units} on the {\cs33\b View} menu.
\par 
\par }