{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f23\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Webdings;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sa120\widctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\fs28\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 4;}{\s5\sa120\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60\widctlpar \i\f5\fs18\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvl11
\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext15 List Bullet;}{\s16\li284\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 List Continue;}{\s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext17 List Number;}{\*\cs18 \additive\super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s19\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext19 List Bullet 2;}{\s20\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 Hypertext Anchor;}{\*\cs21 \additive\b\f11\fs20 \sbasedon10 Key Name;}{\s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext22 
Synonyms;}{\s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon17\snext23 List Manual;}{\s24\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext24 List Number 2;}{
\s25\li566\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext25 List Continue 2;}{\s26\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext26 Definition Term;}{\s27\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf11\lang2057 \sbasedon26\snext27 Definition Definition;}{
\s28\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext28 Tip;}{\s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon28\snext29 Note;}{\s30\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ~}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon29\snext30 Important;}{\s31\fi-284\li568\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon24\snext31 
List Manual 2;}{\s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext32 Comment;}{\*\cs33 \additive\b\f5\fs20 \sbasedon10 App Text;}{\*\cs34 \additive\scaps\f25\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon10 Graphic Link;}{\s35\sa120\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext35 footer;}{\*\cs36 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s37\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext37 annotation text;}{\s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 
\sbasedon0\snext38 Category UID;}{\s39\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'a2}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext39 Context;}{\s40\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar\brdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 {\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf23\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb i}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext40 Index;}{\*\cs41 \additive\i\f5\fs20\ulnone\cf0\nosupersub \sbasedon10 Context Comment;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Symbian;}}{\info
{\title @@TTL:SERIES 5 HELP FILE - TEMPLATE}{\author Symbian}{\operator Symbian}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy11\hr10\min36}{\revtim\yr2000\mo4\dy25\hr16\min45}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2578}{\nofchars14698}{\*\company Psion SW}{\vern57395}}
\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl567\margr7371\margt567\margb567 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\revisions\linkstyles\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0{\*\template C:\\apps\\MSOffice\\Templates\\Other Documents\\CSHELP.DOT}\sectd 
\psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s32\sa120\widctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 Author: Clive Whitear
\par Date: December 21{\super st} 1998
\par Version: ER5  release
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\lang2057\kerning28 Word{\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913837 
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb360\sa240\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs32\cf9\lang2057\kerning28 {\revised\revauth1\revdttm1178913837 0x10007F}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Word: Quick start
\par \pard\plain \s20\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\cf13\lang1024 {\deleted\revauth1\revdttm1178913837 word.quick-start
\par }\pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 word processor cursor insertion point wrap text
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Word is the EPOC machine's word processor. The files created in it are compatible with PC word processing applications, and can be copied to any PC that has EPOC CONNECT installed and worked on there.
\par Use Word to write letters, memos, faxes, or an entire novel.
\par Use Word to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Format text quickly and easily by tapping buttons on the Top toolbar.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Insert pictures, graphs and sound in your files.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Check spelling.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Change page layout and preview how files will look when printed.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Use built-in paragraph styles or add new styles.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Create a new file based on one of the built-in templates, and add templates of your own.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The "cursor" (small black flashing line) shows the current position. When the text typed in reaches the right-hand side of the screen, it automatically "word-wraps" to the next line on the screen.
\par Text formatting is based around "paragraphs"; press the Enter key to start a new paragraph, or hold the Shift key and press Enter to start a new line without starting a new paragraph.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Use the {\cs33\b Zoom} commands on the {\cs33\b View}
 menu to change the size of text on screen. A custom zoom level can be set anywhere between 1% and 200% using {\cs33\b Set zoom}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Zooming only alters the on-screen display and has no effect on printing.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The amount of text in a Word file is limited only by available memory, so long files can be created and worked on if necessary.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Keypresses (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 Page up PgUp Page down Pgdn Home End ctrl fn keyboard
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 These are the default keypresses:
\par Special keypresses can be used to jump to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Previous word: Ctrl+left arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Next word: Ctrl+right arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Start of line: Fn+left arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}End of line: Fn+right arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Start of paragraph: Ctrl+up arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}End of paragraph: Ctrl+down arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Up one screen: Fn+up arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Down one screen: Fn+down arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Start of document: Ctrl+Fn+up arrow
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}End of document: Ctrl+Fn+down arrow.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To jump to the top of any page select {\cs33\b Go to} from the {\cs33\b Find }
cascade on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Inserting objects (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 insert picture embedding linking attaching sketch graph graphics chart drawing sound display as icon tables OLE
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Enhance documents by inserting (embedding) objects in a Word file. To do this:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Position the cursor in the text at the point at which the object is to appear.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}On the {\cs33\b Insert} menu, select:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b Sketch} to add a picture.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Graph} to add a spreadsheet, table or graph created with EPOC Sheet.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Other object} to choose any of the other EPOC programs which support this feature.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To re-edit the object, select it and press Enter, or select {\cs33\b Edit object} from the {\cs33\b Object }cascade on the {\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Inserted objects can cause file sizes to increase greatly. To save screen space (but not disk space), and speed up navigating through and editing a file, select {\cs33\b Object preferences} on the {\cs33\b Tools}
 menu and display all sketches and graphs as icons when they are first embedded. Override these settings for individual inserted objects by highlighting them and selecting {\cs33\b Format object }from the {\cs33\b Object }cascade on the {\cs33\b Edit}
 menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Formatting objects (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 format object resize scale
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To format an object (change the size, scaling and appearance of pictures, graphs etc.), select the object, then select {\cs33\b Format} {\cs33\b object} from the {\cs33\b Object }cascade on the {\cs33\b Edit}
 menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Inserting page breaks (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 manual break new pagebreak new line break linebreak
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Word automatically "paginates" files when they are printed (i.e. it's divided into pages).
\par To manually control where a new page or paragraph will start, place the cursor at the required point and:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Press Ctrl+Enter to insert a page break.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Press Shift+Enter to insert a line break.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Paragraphs (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 spacing alignment carriage return page layout printing centred centered page break pagebreak paragraph end
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Each time the Enter key is pressed, Word starts a new paragraph and inserts a "paragraph end" (or "carriage return") symbol.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The paragraph end symbol, \'b6, is normally invisible. To show paragraph ends, select 
{\cs33\b View preferences} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
All text between two paragraph end symbols, whether it is just one or two characters, a whole line, or several lines, is treated as a single paragraph. Formatting can be applied (spacing, tabs, bullets, colours, alignment etc.) to whole paragraphs by plac
ing the cursor within the paragraph(s) and selecting the desired commandfrom the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu..
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To start a new line without starting a new paragraph, press Shift+Enter.

\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To define how text appears on the printed page, select {\cs33\b Line spacing} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tick {\cs33\b Keep together} to prevent a page break within a paragraph.

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Tick {\cs33\b Keep with next}
 to ensure that a selected paragraph always appears on the same page as the following one. This is useful for keeping a heading with the text following it, or making sure that an entire address appears on the same page.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Tick {\cs33\b Start new page} to ensure that a selected paragraph always appears at the top of a new page.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Tick {\cs33\b Allow as widow/orphan} to let a single line at the beginning or end of a paragraph appear on a separate page from the remainder.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To change the position of a whole paragraph on the page (e.g. to place an address at the top right hand side of a letter, or centre a title above a graph):
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Place the cursor anywhere in the paragraph to be realigned, or select a number of paragraphs.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Press the {\cs33\b Alignment} button on the Top toolbar and select from the drop-down list of options.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Text can also be realigned using {\cs33\b Alignment} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu.

\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Line spacing (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 paragraph spacing gap blank line point size
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Line spacing settings control the spacing between lines of text within a paragraph, and whether paragraphs are separated by extra space above or below.
\par Word normally sets line spacing for a paragraph to 'At least' the current font size, and increases it, where necessary, to accommodate larger text and/or inserted objects.
\par To change line spacing settings select {\cs33\b Line spacing} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu, enter a point size in the Line spacing box, and set the line spacing control to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b Exactly}
 to keep the line spacing consistent, even if there is a picture or some larger text on the line. In some cases this might mean that a section of larger text might be obscured by the line above, so it might be advisable to set line spacing to the size of 
the largest text within the paragraph.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b At least} to allow Word to automatically increase spacing when necessary in order to fully display graphics and any larger sizes of text within a paragraph.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To insert extra spacing between individual paragraphs, enter "point" sizes in the Space above and Space below boxes.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 There are 72 points in an inch, so one point is 1/72nd of an inch.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s28\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
To see the maximum number of lines of text on the screen (up to 50% more), remove the standard spacing between paragraphs by selecting {\cs33\b Style} gallery on the {\cs33\b Paragraphs} menu. Then highlight the 'Normal' line, press {\cs33\b Modify}
 then press {\cs33\b Format}. Select {\cs33\b Line spacing} and set {\cs33\b Space above} to 0. Note that this also affects the way lines are spaced when printed.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Paragraph styles (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 template formatting normal heading style gallery outline level
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 A style is a pre-defined set of formatting options (font, indents, tabs, spacing, borders, colours, bullets and alignments) which is applied to an entire paragraph.
\par Word has some ready made styles (e.g. Heading 1 and Normal), which can be applied via the {\cs33\b Style} button on the Top toolbar or {\cs33\b Style gallery} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu (or using Ctrl+Fn+N for Normal, Ctrl+Fn+1 for Heading 1 etc.).

\par In addition, use the Style gallery to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Create a new style with an associated shortcut key combination - select {
\cs33\b New}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Review or change settings for an existing style - select {\cs33\b Modify}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Assign a shortcut key combination to an existing style - select {\cs33\b Modify}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Define the outline levels used when navigating the document outline.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The style settings are saved as part of the current file, so each file can have different settings.
\par \pard \sa100\sl200\slmult0\widctlpar If you copy a paragraph of text from one Word file to another, using copy & paste, the style of the paragraph will be copied too.
\par \pard \sa120\widctlpar If you often use the same combination of style settings, you can save a file containing the settings as a "template". Then, you can create a new Word file using the template as the starting point.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Borders around text (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 lines width paragraph
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To draw a line around a selected paragraph, tap the {\cs33\b Borders} box on the Top toolbar and select a border style.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To change the style, width and colour of borders, select {\cs33\b Borders}
 on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Colour & other effects (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 colors colours superscript subscript background shading shade grey gray coloured text colored text
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Printed documents can be made more eye-catching by using contrasting shades of grey for text and background.
\par Select {\cs33\b Borders} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu, select the {\cs33\b Colour} tab, and set a background colour.
\par To change the text colour and apply advanced formatting options, select {\cs33\b Font} on the {\cs33\b Text} menu and choose the {\cs33\b Other} tab, then:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Text colour}
 to set a colour and preview it against the selected background.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 If the text is made the same colour as the background it will not be visible.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tick the {\cs33\b Strikethrough} box to make text appear crossed out.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Select {\cs33\b Superscript} in the {\cs33\b Print position} box to make text appear slightly higher than the rest of the line.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Select {\cs33\b Subscript} in the {\cs33\b Print position} box to make text appear slightly lower than the rest of the line.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Indents (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 hanging indent margin
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To move some, or all, of the lines of a selected paragraph in from the page margins, select {\cs33\b Indents} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu and set a distance in the Left and/or Right boxes.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
To indent the first line of a paragraph a different amount from the remainder, enter a distance in the First line box.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}For a "hanging indent", set the Left indent to the same distance as a tab stop and set the First line indent to 0.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Tab positions (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 centred centered aligned right aligned left aligned tab stops columns tabs
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 A tab stop is a position on the page that can be used to set up columns of text or numbers. Columns of text aligned to tab stops look neater when printed than text aligned with the Spacebar.
\par Each press of the Tab key causes subsequent text to jump to the next tab stop.
\par To change the distance between tabs select {\cs33\b Tab} {\cs33\b positions} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The {\cs33\b Standard} setting is 0.63 cm (\'bc
 inch) between tabs, aligned down the left hand side.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Use the {\cs33\b Custom} dialog to set tabs at different places on the page or to set left, right or centre alignment for tab stops. When the distance and alignment has been set for a tab stop, press {\cs33\b 
Set} to continue.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To remove a tab stop, press {\cs33\b Clear}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To remove all tab stops in highlighted paragraphs, press {\cs33\b Clear all}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Tab settings can be amended in the Current tab dialog.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Plain text files (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 RTF ASCII unformatted text-only
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To save a file as unformatted text (ASCII) that can be read by many other programs, select {\cs33\b Export as text file} from the {\cs33\b More }cascade on the {\cs33\b File}
 menu. This creates a new copy of the file in a text-only format and does not affect the original.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Any special formatting (styles, emphases, inserted objects etc.) is not retained in the resulting copy.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Plain text files created in other programs can be imported by selecting {\cs33\b Import text file} from the {\cs33\b More }cascade on the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Non-printing and special characters (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 hide nonprinting manual break non-printing non printing forced line break non-breaking space nonbreaking space hard hyphen nonbreaking hyphen view preferences paragraph end
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To control how Word prints, and displays text on screen, insert "non-printing" special characters as follows:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To start a new line without starting a new paragraph, insert a {\cs33\b 
forced line break} with Shift+Enter.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To prevent a line break at a space (e.g. the space between the initial and surname in J.\~Smith), insert a {\cs33\b non-breaking space} with Shift+Space.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To prevent starting a new line at a hyphen (e.g. will\_o'\_the\_wisp), insert a {\cs33\b hard hyphen} with Shift+- (i.e. Shift+Fn+O).
\par \pard\plain \fi-357\li357\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To make non-printing characters, including tabs, spaces and paragraph ends, visible on the screen:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b View preferences} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Tick the items to display on screen.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Similar preferences can also be set for the OPL editor.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Counting words & pages (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 word count paginate page count
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To count how many words there are in a file, select {\cs33\b Word count} on the {\cs33\b Tools} menu. To find out how many pages it will cover when printed select {\cs33\b Paginate} on the {\cs33\b Tools}
 menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Note that pagination is related to the current page size and margin settings.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Finding & replacing text (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 replace change locate find next find again replace all searching
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 If required, search through an entire file to find any or all occurrences of a specific word or phrase and, if necessary, replace it with a different word/phrase. The {\cs33\b Find} commands are on the {
\cs33\b Edit} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b Find} finds the first occurrence of specified text.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Find again} finds the next occurrence of the same text.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\cs33\b Replace} finds specified text and replaces it with other text.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Tick the {\cs33\b Case sensitive} box to replace only words which are capitalised the same way, i.e. to avoid changing 'sheer cliff face' to 'sheer Clifford face'.
\par Tick the {\cs33\b Match whole word} box to replace only the exact word, i.e. to avoid changing 'Cliffhanger' to 'Cliffordhanger'.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The {\cs33\b Replace all }
command changes all occurrences of a particular word to a different word (e.g. a character's name in a story) - i.e. to find every time the word 'Cliff' is used and replace them all with 'Clifford' press the {\cs33\b Replace all }
button when the first occurrence has been found in the Replace dialog,
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Formatting text (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 attribute type style typeface format font size bold italics underlined align justify borders bulleted list undo cancelled canceled
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The Top toolbar has buttons for applying the most commonly used formatting options to highlighted text or entire paragraphs. Use the buttons to:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Apply a paragraph style.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Change font.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Set the size of text.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Make text bold, italic or underlined.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Change paragraph alignment.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Add borders to paragraphs.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}Create a bulleted list.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 A combination of formatting options can be applied, e.g. you can make text bold and italic, or larger and bulleted with borders, etc.
\par The font (typeface), size, colour and print position of highlighted text can also be changed, by selecting {\cs33\b Font} on the {\cs33\b Text} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 To undo all the text formatting changes for
 the current paragraph(s), select {\cs33\b Remove formatting} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}To undo all the paragraph formatting changes for the current paragraph(s), select {\cs33\b Remove formatting} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Text may not appear on-screen in the selected font. This is because Word displays text in whichever of its own fonts is the nearest match to the printer font.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Bullets & symbols (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 bulleted list foreign characters accents fractions half three quarters insert special characters
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Lists of items are often preceded by special characters called "bullets". To make selected text into a bulleted list, tap the Bullet button on the Top toolbar.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
To change the colour, size, and indent of bullets, or to use a different character or symbol as a bullet, select {\cs33\b Bullets} on the {\cs33\b Paragraph} menu.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To insert unusual, accented, or foreign characters in the file, select {\cs33\b Special character} on the {\cs33\b Insert} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
The dialog displays a keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+nnn) for the selected character which can be used to insert it in other programs.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Templates in Word
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 stencil overlay pattern skeleton sample example
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
A "template" is a document design, comprising paragraph styles, page layout, header, footer etc. that you can use to base new Word files on. You can use one of the built-in templates or create new templates of your own.
\par {\cs33\b To base a new file on a template
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Create new file} on the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Choose a name and location for the new file and select the template you want to base it on.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 If you've created templates yourself, they're listed with a (C) or (D) after the name.

\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs33\b To create a template
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
Create a Word file with the styles, page layout, headers, footers etc. that you want to include in the template.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 
The cursor position, Toolbar and Top toolbar settings and the printer setting are also saved in the template.
\par \pard\plain \s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab Select {\cs33\b More|Save as template} on the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par 3.\tab You are asked for a filename and disk drive that you want to save the template under.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To delete a template, select {\cs33\b More|Delete template} on the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par {\cs33\b To edit an existing template
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 1.\tab}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Create a new file based on the template you wish to edit by selecting {\cs33\b 
Create new file} on the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 2.\tab}Choose a name and location for the new file (e.g. "Temporary" in the Documents folder of disk drive C) and select the template you want to edit.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The new file is opened, and you can edit it as required.
\par \pard\plain \s23\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284 \f5\fs20\lang2057 3.\tab Save the file as a template by selecting {\cs33\b More|Save as template} on the {\cs33\b File} menu.
\par 4.\tab Give the template the same name and location as the original one and press {\cs33\b OK}.
\par 5.\tab A confirmation dialog asks if you want to replace the original template.
\par 6.\tab You can now close and delete the file you created ("Temporary").
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 You cannot replace or delete the built-in templates.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \tqr\tx9072 \b\f5\lang2057 Outline navigation (Word)
\par \pard\plain \s22\sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\cf13\lang2057 document outline level expand collapse
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 For easier navigation in large Word files, you can view the document in outline, where each paragraph is represented by a single line, and where you can choose which outline levels are displayed.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 F\tab}\pard\plain \s28\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb F}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 The outline level of a paragraph is related to its paragraph style.
\par \pard\plain \sa120\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Select {\cs33\b Outline} on the {\cs33\b View} menu to see the document structure in outline. When in the document outline:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li284\sa120\widctlpar\tx284{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 to expand the selected outline level, press the right arrow key.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}to collapse the selected outline level, press the left arrow key.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}to expand all outline levels, press the {\cs33\b Open all} button.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20\lang2057 \'b7\tab}to collapse all outline levels, press the {\cs33\b Close all} button.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f20\fs20\lang2057 ?\tab}\pard\plain \s29\fi-283\li283\sa120\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb ?}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 Paragraph styles with outline level 0 are not displayed in the document outline.

\par }